List of news related to Layoffs Amazon:

Title: How To Survive What Comes Next
URL: https://www.activistpost.com/how-to-survive-what-comes-next/
Time Published: 2025-11-11T18:59:00Z
Full Content:
Aside from economic collapse scenarios, many countries are in the process of eliminating physical cash and coins. Instead, everyone has an account that holds their money. You cannot purchase goods or services without access to government-based cryptocurrency. Even if the currency itself is still backed by faith in the government, you have to use this electronic system. The result is multiple problems that could leave you in a situation where you have the money in the bank to pay your bills and purchase goods and services, yet you cannot do so. These threats include: These hacks usually affect the bank or primary clearinghouse rather than a specific person’s account. You may be unable to purchase goods or services for hours or days. While this is inconvenient, it isn’t as bad as a full collapse, where the banks close for good. There’s only so much you can do about this kind of hack other than make sure you can go two weeks without buying anything at any given time. It is also essential to keep a paper-based address book with phone numbers and account information so that you can contact utility companies or others who may be expecting payments from you while the bank or clearinghouse is down. Let’s say you can connect to Wi-Fi independently of the SIM Card. Your phone app may not work with Wi-Fi. This is why I recommend having an app on your phone that doesn’t use the SIM card to dial out on Wi-Fi so that you can make the necessary calls. If the hacker was able to steal money from your accounts, it could take weeks to years before you recover the money. In the short term, you will have to shut down credit cards and so on, then wait for new ones to come in the mail. You may also have to manage restoring devices and regaining access to your accounts. Here again, make sure you can go at least 2 weeks without buying anything so that you can manage your basic necessities. Merchant Category Codes are unique identifiers that put different products into separate categories. For example, food has one set of numeric identifiers, while clothing has other identifiers. Even without looking at your receipt, the bank and transaction clearinghouse may have some ideas about what you bought. The transaction cost can then give some estimates about quantity and item type. One day, data from all banks and clearinghouses may pool into a central government computer. Social credit scores work like your financial-based credit scores. Consider how your financial credit score enables businesses to “reward” you with credit or better interest rates if you pay your bills on time and have an optimal debt-to-income ratio. Your social credit score looks at how you act in society. For example, China has a system that rewards things like donating blood. This same system “punishes” people who drive drunk or engage in other activities that aren’t “beneficial to society.” People with good social credit scores may get tax breaks, an increased chance of getting a promotion, or other benefits. When vaccines became available for COVID-19, governments worldwide were concerned because people hesitated to embrace mRNA vaccines. This led to people not complying with recommendations to get vaccinated. Social credit scores can be paired with cashless systems that will block purchasing from specific merchant category codes. It could become possible to deny people the ability to buy food, gas, and other essentials if they aren’t vaccinated. When you can’t use cash, pressure campaigns like this will be almost 100% effective because you will have to comply or do without the necessities of life. The only way to outlast a pressure campaign like this is to have a stockpile of food and other essentials that will last until the pressure tactics are stopped. At first, you might think merchant credit codes will only come into play when the government seeks to limit, slow down, or prevent purchasing certain goods and services. The problem is that modern networks aren’t safe from hackers, including those who seek to disrupt trade for ethical reasons. For example, the Internet Archive was recently targeted by a hacktivist group, Blackmeta. They claim they attacked this non-profit library site because it is based in the USA and, therefore, is aligned with Israeli activities. Ironically, the Internet Archive has been locked in multiple court battles with publishers that may be far more aligned with Israel. These publishers, in turn, are trying to shut down the Internet Archive because when people don’t buy from the publisher, it cuts into their profits. Now imagine this kind of situation happening with the information stolen from the Heritage Foundation, and then used to target more granular data in banks and merchant clearinghouse systems. You could very easily see transactions declined for what appears to be “government” or other legislative curbs, when in fact, it’s some group attacking you because of a “social credit score” known only to them. If you want to buy something right now, you can just put your credit card away and use cash. This won’t be possible once the only fiat currency available is electronic in nature. No matter how much you want to look at the potential for excess government imposition, the fact remains any group with sufficient skills and interest can cause serious problems. AI can keep track of billions of records and patterns of activity. This includes determining if what you buy is “normal” for your location as well as for you as a consumer within a particular category. Right now, that’s likely beyond the implementation of the cashless centralized government cryptocurrency systems. At some point, though, someone on something like the “no-fly list,” etc., could wind up unable to buy certain items or in certain quantities and not realize there is a curb based on a government-based list. Considering how many lists there are, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to resolve the problem and purchase goods in a timely manner. This includes lists that may be compiled based on estimated political slant. Consider that even now, traffic cameras can match license plates with bumper stickers and yard political signs to determine your likely preferences. When you factor in non-governmental groups, the situation gets even worse. Technologically speaking, it’s within the scope of foreign agents and hacktivists to bring together limits on how you spend your money and non-financial activities. As we are seeing in various hacks, there is certainly a “social credit score” being applied to businesses that can be scaled to target individuals who may want to purchase extra supplies to manage an emergency. Right now you can protect your money while it is still in your control. First, it is very important to keep your money in different banks. Even if one goes down, the others may still be functioning. This applies to credit and debit cards. If you have only Visa cards, ensure you have at least one Mastercard. You can do this with prepaid cards as well as more permanent accounts. This method won’t work if every transaction must go through a centralized clearinghouse that includes every possible bank or other institution. At this point, it’s impossible to say whether that kind of system exists and how various groups would use or misuse it. Second, if you routinely buy from certain stores, you can purchase gift cards and have the money ready and waiting in your account. If you cannot access your bank account, you can still buy from that store. This won’t necessarily prevent you from running into rationing or other limits that may be imposed by the government through the store or at the store level. Preparing for small—and large-scale disasters is essential for your well-being and that of your family. You can still use bartering, provided you have a clear sense of the value of what you will offer and whether or not the other party needs what you have. Make consistent contacts with small or local farmers and others who may be willing to take something in exchange for food. The trade could be anything from assisting with mechanical repairs to making garments. Everything will depend on the relationship you develop and the situation. You can make barter arrangements for just about anything from tangible goods to training in various skills. Look for small businesses and local groups, as they may be more open to these kinds of arrangements. Spending a few dollars extra and supporting these people now may be very useful later on. This is also a good time to form relationships with established flea markets and others with different kinds of products. These people may be very helpful when you find a way to barter for tools or other goods that you can no longer purchase using money. Here again, you have to know what their needs are and how you can meet them. As hacks on banks, hospitals, water purification plants, and the government itself become more common, it should be obvious that a cashless society can pose significant risks if you aren’t prepared. Taking a few simple measures now may help you get through these situations as painlessly as possible. The most shocking videos in the world! This video actually shows us what the secret of the Trump family is related to their expressive health!!! Video HERE. None of us is really looking forward to the next great depression, even while we’re all expecting it to come. The reality is that rough financial times are worrisome for everyone, including the most prepared preppers amongst us. While you and I might be better off than our neighbors are, there’s still the possibility of losing our jobs, followed by our cars and then our homes. Since one of the marks of depression is high unemployment, there’s no guarantee that any of us will manage to keep our jobs or even find another job if we lose ours. While 75% of people managed to keep their jobs back in the Great Depression of the last century, it is the 25% of them who lost their jobs that we all focus on. This shaky job market, coupled with a potential for high inflation make for a rough financial time for just about everyone. Oh, there are always those who have enough money that it doesn’t really matter; I’m not one of those people and I doubt that you are either. While we don’t know just when that next depression is going to come or what will be the actual trigger, there are plenty of things going on in the current economy to give us concern. More and more economists and financial planners of all stripes are warning people about the collapse that’s coming. Some even going so far as to say that it will be much worse than the Great Depression of the last century. So, what are we going to do when it comes? Or, perhaps even more importantly, what should we avoid doing when it comes? The first thing to realize is that the shape of the economy, including the shape of the stock market, is largely psychological. Stocks rise and fall in value due to people’s perceptions, more than anything tangible that can be pointed to. Once those people realize the mistake they’ve made, things can turn around just as quickly. It’s easy to fall into fear during times of uncertainty. But that fear will cause you to make poor decisions, just like those people trading on the stock market. While there may be plenty to be fearful about, you don’t have to fall for it, even if everyone else does. Rather, think through your situation and make the best possible decisions to protect yourself and your family. Remember, even though 25% of workers lost their jobs during the Great Depression, 75% of the people managed to keep theirs. Work on being part of that 75%. Whatever you do, don’t quit your job, no matter how bad you think it is or how much you feel they don’t appreciate you. At least you have a job and you can pay the bills. If you quit, without already having another job that you’re contracted for, you may not end up being able to get another job for months or even years. If you don’t feel that the job is meeting your financial needs, then the answer isn’t quitting, it’s reevaluating your spending and looking for a way to lower your costs. Chances are that you’re living above your means. That’s not your employer’s fault, so you can’t expect them to pay for it. With so many people losing their jobs, the one thing you want to do is make sure you keep your own. In many companies, that means becoming the indispensable person. The last one they would want to lay off. That won’t work in jobs which are controlled by unions, as all that matters then is seniority, but if that’s not an issue for the job you have, then do whatever you have to, in order to make them think that they can’t live without you. More than anything, this means going above and beyond on a regular basis. I did this in my engineering career, earning myself a number of promotions. I then passed that work ethic on to my children. When my son’s company (he works for a petroleum company) was laying people off left and right, he got a 40% raise, because they couldn’t afford to lose him. The people who have the most trouble dealing with any financial downturn are those who are saddled with a lot of debt. That can be exacerbated even more by losing a job. But even for those who manage to keep their jobs, unnecessary debt becomes a burden that’s hard to bear. It’s not a hard and fast rule, but inflation generally goes hand-in-hand with times of economic downturn. While that doesn’t mean that the cost of those debts will climb in any way, it does mean that the amount of disposable income available will shrink, leading to making some hard decisions, like paying for the new car or eating. For those who lose their jobs, all those debts make it harder to survive, financially speaking. Not only are they likely to lose whatever they bought on credit, but in trying to do everything they can to keep their heads above water, financially speaking, they might end up losing something even more important, like their home, because of that car payment. All Americans Will Lose Their Home, Income And Power By November 27, 2025 Watch the video below! Cosigning on a loan is a risky move at any time. By doing so, you’re promising to make the payment, if the borrower can’t. That puts your finances in captivity to their ability to pay their obligations. If they don’t follow the kind of advice I’m writing in this article and end up losing their job, you’re going to end up being legally forced to pay for whatever you cosigned on. During a time of financial depression, that could be enough to sink your own finances. The “Great Recession” of 2008-2009 was caused by adjustable rate and balloon mortgages. Written in the time of President Clinton’s presidency, these were intended to make it possible for people who couldn’t otherwise afford a home, the ability to buy one. The idea was sold on the basis of some financial projections that didn’t come to pass. When the interest rate or mortgage payment went up, the people who had taken out those loans found themselves unable to make their payments. It was even worse for those whose mortgages included balloon payments, as they hadn’t prepared for that huge payment. The result was that thousands of people lost their homes, pushing the nation and then the world into the recession. There’s nothing wrong with refinancing, if it can be done in such a way as to save you money. But take care when doing so, that you understand exactly what the terms of the loan are. Don’t accept something which will cause your payments to go up sometime in the future. As we’ve all seen, that’s dangerous. The last Great Depression came about largely due to people investing money they didn’t have, in stocks they didn’t understand. They were essentially buying stocks with borrowed money. That still happens today, with people “leveraging” their funds to buy more than they otherwise would be able to. The problem with that investment, like any other investment, is that it can go down, just as easily as it can go up. The “sure thing” your buddy talks you into may not be anywhere near as sure as he thinks it is. While some percentage of those really do pay off; most do not, leaving people with a sizeable loss. My personal philosophy about investing is that I see it as a gamble. As such, I won’t invest any more than I feel I can afford to lose. While I’ve missed a lot of opportunities that way, including a recent one that could have paid me 30 to 1, I haven’t lost any money that way either. Perhaps one of the more foolish things that someone can do during a depression, besides taking on new debt, is to upgrade their lifestyle. Even if you get a promotion at work, with a nice fat raise, there’s no real security that you’ll hang onto that during a time of depression. Rather than spending that money to buy a new car or a boat, use it to pay down your debt, so that later, when the economy is on steadier ground, you can afford to really enjoy it. If anything, a depression is a time to bring down your lifestyle a bit; doing everything you can to lower your expenses. That will give you more flexibility with your finances, especially if things take a turn for the worst. I know this is going to sound like a contradiction to the last item; but don’t keep your money in cash either. Rather, put it into some sort of investment that is secure; while at the same time not requiring any borrowing on your part. Assuming that you are buying at the beginning of the inflationary cycle, probably the most secure investment would be in precious metals. That isn’t the only secure investment though. Bonds, especially federal and municipal bonds are secure investments. So are utility stocks and some of the blue chip stocks. Look to invest in things that will have to exist through the depression because people need them. Those are the places to invest. My favorite investment, for people who don’t have a lot to invest, is to invest in non-perishable food. On the average, food has been going up about 8% per year, even while the general inflation rate has been hovering under 1%. So, if someone buys $1,000 worth of food and holds onto it for five years, it will be worth almost $1,500 at the end of that time. They don’t even have to sell it to cash in either; all they’ve got to do is eat it and use the money they would normally spend on that food for other things. Finally, do everything you can to avoid defrauding your creditors. There are things you can do to protect your relationship with them, even if you can’t make your payments. The last thing that any creditor wants is to have one of their customers default, causing them to repossess property. They’re not in the business of selling that property; they’re in the business of selling loans. While loan forgiveness is rather rare, you might be able to get a forbearance or deferment on that loan. Both are common for student loans and mortgage companies are amiable to working with you in that way as well. Make contact with your lender, telling them what your situation is and asking them what they can do for you. Remember, you won’t be the only one going through hard financial times. They’re probably going to be even more aware of the problems going on than you are, as they are going to have a wider picture to look at. As such, they would rather work with you, than have to go through foreclosure. The Ultra-wealthy are Planning Your Future Right Now The ultra-wealthy are planning your future right now. They’ll call it ‘utopia’ and sell it to you as such, but it’s actually the opposite. Welcome to the first of a two-part series. Utopia is a place of “ideal perfection, especially in laws, government, and social conditions.” At least, that’s the dictionary definition. The thing is, despite humans having tried for thousands of years to attain Eden-esque perfection, it’s impossible. Worse, the irony of such efforts is literally baked into the word ‘utopia:’ From Merriam Webster (emphasis added): In 1516, English humanist Sir Thomas More published a book titled Utopia, which compared social and economic conditions in Europe with those of an ideal society on an imaginary island located off the coast of the Americas. More wanted to imply that the perfect conditions on his fictional island could never really exist, so he called it “Utopia,” a name he created by combining the Greek words ou (“not, no”) and topos (“place”). Still, that doesn’t stop people from trying to create fictional paradise. The latest attempts are — unsurprisingly — conceived of, funded by, and built by our billionaire overlords, who aim to own everything and define how our lives will be lived in the future. At the same time, a paradox is unfolding. While several attempts at billionaire-initiated paradises are currently in the works, some efforts are failing, some are falling apart, and some are simply struggling to get off the ground. What we know about Silicon Valley elites, bitcoin bros, and AI billionaires is that they dream big and have virtually limitless finances. So even failed attempts at utopia — or whatever their version of it is — gets the entire cohort a step closer to decoding a formula that might stick. It’s like unlimited funding to indulge a God complex. In part one of this series, we’re looking at four concepts for creating paradise on earth crafted by the freedom loving, libertarian, optimized-living-through-technology crowd. What exactly do these communities promise? Who’s behind them? And most importantly, could they just be 15-minute dystopian wolves in utopian sheep’s clothing? Let’s dive in. Próspera began as a bold libertarian experiment on the tropical island of Roatán, off the northern coast of Honduras. It’s the brainchild of Erick Brimen, a Venezuelan-born wealth fund manager who imagined a city run not by politicians, but by market forces and blockchain logic. He’s aiming to create a low-tax, deregulated tech haven where businesses can make their own laws, or choose to implement existing national laws from a menu of 36 countries. Residents pay low taxes (payable in Bitcoin), and biotech startups push the limits of radical life extension with experimental, as yet unproven treatments disallowed in other countries. With venture capital backing from Coinbase and Sam Altman–linked projects, plus support from figures like Peter Thiel, Próspera has quickly become a magnet for crypto evangelists, longevity obsessives, and deregulation devotees. It hosts conferences with themes like: “Make death optional.” It’s creating a walled city with private arbitration courts, judges who adjudicate online from Arizona (no idea why Arizona — our research was not explicit), and QR-code entry checkpoints. But like all utopias, this charter city dream has clashed with reality. One critic called it a “libertarian fantasy… that’s not going to turn out well.” The Honduran government that initially supported the project and allowed for the zoning laws making it possible has since collapsed in scandal — with the former president serving time in US prison for conspiring to import and distribute over 400 tons of cocaine. That’s a lot of blow. Locals in the nearby village of Crawfish Rock have not taken kindly to the idea of the gated city and have accused Próspera of land grabs, environmental damage, and trying to push them out. When the current democratic socialist President, Xiomara Castro, declared the former administration’s zoning laws unconstitutional, Próspera fought back in international court, demanding nearly $11 billion USD in damages — about a third of the country’s GDP — an amount that would bankrupt the country if they lose the case. Brimen is doubling down, lobbying American politicians to argue in his favor and launching a spin-off project aimed at Africa. This all plays out as an ironic twist of history: a 21st-century version of the banana republic, complete with foreign investors, private courts, and corporate control over land, law, and labor. The term ‘banana republic’ was coined by author O. Henry to describe Honduras — a place where US fruit companies ran the economy. Now, crypto-capitalists and Silicon Valley VCs are picking up where the plantations left off, except this time, they’re promising immortality instead of bananas. NEOM was supposed to be Saudi Arabia’s leap into the future: a $500 billion high-tech oasis in the desert that would make even Silicon Valley blush. Conceived in 2017 by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman as the crown jewel of his Vision 2030 plan, NEOM promised flying taxis, robot dinosaurs, artificial moons, a desert ski resort with fake snow, and a 170-kilometer mirrored city called The Line. This mirrored city was meant to stretch 170 kilometers across the desert with no cars, no roads, and no emissions — just smart infrastructure, biometric surveillance, and those previously mentioned flying taxis. But like many utopias, the fantasy is already buckling under the weight of reality. The goal was for The Line to eventually be home to 9 million people, with 1.5 million residents by 2030. Middle East Eye reports that Saudi officials now predict fewer than 300,000 in that time frame. Only 2.4 kilometers of The Line may actually be completed by 2030. Oil revenues — the main funding source — have declined sharply, and insiders say the kingdom is facing an “environment of limited resources.” Budget reviews are underway, and other NEOM projects (like the year-round ski resort) have been shelved, delayed, or drastically scaled back. Behind the glossy renderings lies a construction project with a dystopian work culture. NEOM’s former CEO, Nadhmi al-Nasr, developed a reputation for abusive management. “I drive everybody like a slave,” he said, celebrating “[w]hen they drop down dead… That’s how I do my projects.” In one case, he told an employee to “walk into the desert and die” so he could urinate on their grave. As a result, there has been a mass exodus of foreign executives, many of whom forfeited six-figure contracts just to escape the toxic environment. Meanwhile, members of the Howeitat tribe, native to the land NEOM occupies, have resisted the development. Many have been forcibly removed, at least one activist was killed, and others have been imprisoned for resisting eviction. Human rights groups have condemned the project, while NEOM’s own consultants warned that the mega-structure could actually change the weather and decimate bird populations due to its massive mirrored walls. None of this matters; Saudi officials press on. Promotional videos still promise a gleaming future where “Neomians” live in harmony with nature, technology, and robot dinosaurs. But those on the ground tell a different story — of constant surveillance, sexual harassment allegations ignored by leadership, and Orwellian control over employee life. Promises of a liberalized social zone — with alcohol, gender mixing, freedom — have quietly been walked back by a government known for its public stonings and other extreme punishment for ‘immorality.’ NEOM may, in fact, never turn out to be the future of urban life. But it may just be the world’s most expensive monument to authoritarian delusion: a dystopian nightmare of a city built on sand, surveillance, and slogans. Telosa is what happens when a billionaire tries to build a utopian city without using the word ‘utopia.’ Marc Lore, former Walmart executive and founder of Jet.com and Diapers.com, envisions a new city rising from scratch somewhere in the American desert (or possibly Appalachia), designed to be sustainable, walkable, tech-forward, and just equitable enough to keep you from asking too many questions. According to Telosa’s website, this categorically, definitely, 100 percent isn’t a utopia. Is the goal to create a utopia? No, we are absolutely not attempting to create a utopia. Utopian projects are focused on creating a perfect, idealistic state — we are not. We are firmly grounded in reality and what is possible. We are focused on the best, most sustainable solutions for infrastructure, urban design, economic vibrancy and city services, but we fully recognize that no solution is perfect and all human systems have flaws. Therefore, we are committed to new ideas, finding the best way to solve difficult problems and constant improvement. And yet the renderings and promo videos suggest otherwise: gleaming towers, shaded plazas, handicap-accessible courtyards, and monorails slicing silently through eco-optimized zones. If it looks like utopia, smells like utopia, and plans to engineer human behavior like utopia — well, you do the math. The project is called “Telosa,” from the Greek word telos — meaning “highest purpose.” Hey — stop calling it utopia! The big idea is for 50,000 people to move to this yet-to-be-determined place by 2030 and have the population eventually grow to 5 million. Everyone lives within a short walk (15 minutes maybe?) of everything they need — a school, a park, a job (lolz!), and probably an AI wellness coach. Cars, of course, are banned. There will be solar-powered towers and vertical farms and an economy based on “equitism,” a remix of a 19th-century idea where the city itself owns the land and uses rising property values to fund social services. But for all its lofty ideas, Telosa has yet to put a single shovel in the ground. There’s no final site, no government approval, and no clear funding beyond Lore’s initial push. It’s still just a shimmering concept, a mirage sketched by a star architect (Bjarke Ingels) and floated in interviews, TED talks, and design expos. Critics argue that if Lore really wanted to help people, he could invest in solving infrastructure problems in existing cities. Others point out that “15-minute cities” — the model Telosa clearly mirrors — have become a global flashpoint, praised by urban planners but derided by skeptics as a way to centralize control, limit movement, and monitor citizens. So far, Telosa’s biggest achievement is that it’s really good at marketing a city that doesn’t exist. If it ever does gets built, we may finally get to ask: does a billionaire-designed city really offer freedom — or just the illusion of choice in a world where the architecture has already made the decisions for you? If you’ve ever dreamed of escaping taxes, regulations, and society itself, there’s a billionaire-funded plan for that: Seasteading — the floating libertarian fantasy that just won’t sink, no matter how many times it fails. First floated (literally and ideologically) by the Seasteading Institute in 2008, the project was originally funded by… wait for it… Peter Thiel. He envisioned self-governing cities bobbing peacefully in international waters until backing away from the idea and stating they were “not quite feasible from an engineering perspective.” The concept was a nation without a nation, where entrepreneurs could escape pesky things like labor laws, zoning, and democracy. In short: Silicon Valley meets Waterworld, minus the humility. An initial prototype near Thailand ended with Thai authorities raiding the floating platform and accusing the residents of endangering national sovereignty, an offense punishable by life imprisonment or death. The couple that lived on the house boat went into hiding and the Thai navy eventually hauled away what was essentially a raft with Wi-Fi. The broader Seasteading movement has since splintered, evolved, and — most recently — mutated into a newer project with fresher branding: Arkpad. “By building a community in the ocean, you’re not just creating a home; you’re crafting a legacy of innovation, freedom, and sustainability,” reads the marketing copy. Arkpad bills itself as a “sovereign lifestyle project” and a “network state” — crypto-native language for the same old dream: private governance, no taxes, total control. Based in the Philippines, Arkpad is aiming to build on ocean-based platforms and create a floating community, complete with decentralized ID systems, underwater real estate, and NFTs for residency. Because, of course. Their YouTube channel mixes crypto sermons with dreamy renderings of sleek structures rising from the sea — modern-day Noah’s Arks, minus the animals or flood, but heavy on Bitcoin and barnacles. Watch the videos carefully and you’ll see the architects’ sleek computer-generated renderings blur into the reality of what an Arkpad really is: a concrete block floating in the middle of absolutely nowhere. No word on whether they supply residents with free Dramamine. Just like Seasteading before it, Arkpad suffers from a chronic case of reality avoidance. Engineering constraints, rising ocean temperatures, maritime law, international sovereignty, and basic logistical challenges all still exist. What’s more, these projects have always been less about freedom for all and more about escape for the few. Not everyone is invited to these floating utopias. They’re luxury lifeboats for a digital elite preparing to sail away from the consequences of the world they helped wreck. Until further notice, Seasteading and Arkpad remain what they’ve always been: libertarian lighthouses in the fog — glowing ideals with no mooring in the real world. Whether real or imagined, all these utopian concepts promise clean slates and high-tech harmony in their own way, plugged into the seductive guarantee of a new way to live. Blockchain ruled and perfect in efficiency, there remains only one slight problem: Reality. History shows that when elites indulge in the fantasy of utopias, reality always gets in the way. Wealthy eccentricity is tolerable for a small group of like-minded disciples, but humans are not robots. Therefore, it’s unlikely that a utopia cooked up by some micro-dosing, immortality-seeking tech bro could ever be scaled up except through heavy reliance on surveillance, coercion, and control — where things eventually devolve into socially engineered, privacy-erasing digital prisons, wrapped in glossy marketing brochures and eco-communal delusion. There’s also the problem of governments — they’re not into the whole competition thing. But hey, that’s not going to stop these billionaires from trying. So in part two of this series, we’ll look at some of the other ways billionaires are planning to control the future of urban living and how it might affect you. At the top of the financial pyramid sits the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in Switzerland , the “central bank of central banks.” It acts as a clearinghouse for financial operations between major nations and secretly controls monetary policy for over 60 central banks worldwide.They operate with complete legal immunity from national governments and taxation. Central banks themselves , like the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of England, and others , print fiat currency at will, control interest rates, and manipulate economic conditions to serve the interests of the elite, not the public. Names like: These families accumulated obscene amounts of wealth through monopolies on banking, oil, railroads, and shipping during the 18th, 19th, and early 20th centuries , and much of that wealth was quietly transitioned into trusts, holding companies, and offshore accounts. Estimates of the Rothschild family’s total wealth range from hundreds of billions to trillions of dollars, though it’s nearly impossible to trace because it’s hidden in foundations, trusts, and behind nominal ownership. According to a study by the Tax Justice Network, the global elite hide $21 to $32 trillion in offshore accounts , in places like: This hoarded wealth escapes taxation, public scrutiny, and accountability. The U.S. government alone has been caught “losing track” of trillions: A handful of investment firms, BlackRock, Vanguard, and State Street, now collectively own controlling stakes in: They also control massive real estate portfolios , quietly buying up farmland, housing, and critical infrastructure worldwide. The Vatican Bank holds untold billions in gold, real estate, and art. Documents have shown it profited from wars, colonial plundering, and financial schemes. Rumors persist about secret underground vaults loaded with treasures taken during centuries of conquest and conflict. Because it’s not idle money — it’s used to: And while the average person struggles with inflation, debt, and taxes , these entities hoard enough wealth to end global poverty dozens of times over. The idea of a global elite controlling humanity through debt, manipulation, and hoarded wealth isn’t a theory. It’s a fact that history’s empires have always functioned this way. The names and technology have changed, but the strategy hasn’t. And when the people finally see how it works, it falls apart. Every time. Since the 2008 crisis, four huge shifts take place that define the modern financial industry: Due to the strict regulatory policy adopted after the crisis, the post-2008 banking sector was uncompetitive relative to the pre-2008 banking sector, with the aggravating circumstance that the banks that survived the crash were buried in debt and deeply exposed in regards to their internal control mechanisms. In this context, the industrial sector sought for alternative, non-bank financing methods; namely private equity and alternative credit, with the latter occupying the power vacuum left by old-fashioned moneylenders that had been wounded by the housing market crash and the former constituting a revolutionary way of investing in company stock. Attention: The US is Facing The BIGGEST Threat Of The Century So pay chose attention because this video will change your life forever for the good! The most iconic finance job ever, the stockbroker, pretty much suffered its extinction during the 2008 crash. This opened the door for automated forms of investing in which the role of the intermediary – the broker – became trivial. Instead of investing on specific companies due to shareholder expectations of growth and performance, investors shifted towards large diversified funds listing hundreds of companies and tracking their growth over long periods of time. The vast majority of portfolios rarely list individual company stock anymore; instead you’ll find passive investments on the S&P 500 or similar indexes. The pre-2008 get-rich-quick culture came to an end long ago, with the exception of online quasi-scams and compulsive gamblers stepping out of casinos and into the stock market. Nowadays, equity investments are much more sober, striving for low returns on the short term, but large gains in the long run due to compound interest. This focus on long-term wealth planning is but a consequence of the overall lack of confidence in the solvency public pension plans – a very reasonable public sentiment that has grown especially amongst young generations and that has pushed them to rely on private retirement systems. While fee compression already democratized the access to the stock market, small investors were still excluded from alternative investments such as private equity and venture capital. With the rise of alternative credit (as detailed in point 1) private equity funds did not only lower their minimum capital requirements, but we also witnessed the appearance of “feeder funds” aimed at collecting cash from small investors in order to meet the capital requirements of actual private equity funds. In occasions, markets have even experienced feeder funds of feeder funds, or feeder funds creating ETF-like portfolios combining investments on several private equity funds, such as EQT. The financial sector is arguably a more mature sector due to developments taking place since the 2008 crisis. This is mainly due to automatization of middleman roles and thence a democratization of access to investment opportunities, a soberized portfolio management culture, the rise of non-bank financing methods, and a declining confidence in public pension plans. The Medical Research Scam (The most egregious, diabolical and lucrative scam of modern times) First take a look at one of the most shocking videos in the world! This video actually shows us what the secret of the Trump family is related to their expressive health!!! –FULL VIDEO HERE In the universe of alternative media, the immense size and influence of the Science/Medicine Industrial Complex (including “Big Pharma”) is well-known and commonly accepted. However, this massive network of organizations might be better understood as Big Research. A recent investigation dealing with UAB football (too embarrassing to cancel) led me to perform further research into the key source of funding for this university, the largest employer in the state of Alabama. The revenue UAB derives from scientific “research grants” awarded by the federal government is of a scale that boggles the mind of this citizen researcher. This examination of UAB funding sources should illustrate the massive amounts of money flowing from Washington D.C. – as well as various other medical foundations and private sources – into the coffers of certain higher education institutions that have leveraged allocations labeled “scientific research” into money-printing factories. In the past seven years, UAB – a public college of 23,000 students and 24,000 (!) employees – generated at least $5 billion in revenue from government grants, most coming from the federal government and most from grants bestowed by the National institutes of Health (NIH). In Fiscal Year 2022, UAB was the recipient of a “record” $774.5 million in federal grants and funding (source: al.com Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist John Archibald). You’ll Understand Everything After Watching This VIDEO! From 2018 through 2022, UAB received $3.178 billion in science research grants. Assuming annual funding levels were similar in 2023, 2024 and 2025, UAB has pocketed more than $5 billion in “research” money. According to an analysis published by the The Urban Institute in 2022, 37 percent of UAB’s operating revenues came from federal funding. Only two colleges in America – MIT (48 percent) and Johns Hopkins (42 percent) – received a larger percentage of their total income from the federal government. For context, every year UAB makes approximately twice the amount of revenue from federal grants as the university does from student tuition and fees. According to the school’s financial report from 2020, the school netted $244.93 million in tuition and fees in Fiscal 2020 and $484 million from “grants and contracts.” (Even tuition is federally subsidized, as nation-wide, 31.6 percent of students receive Pell Grants. I also learned that graduate students who help perform medical research are paid with federal dollars.) In 2022, UAB received $774 million in federal funding, more than double the $332.4 million it received as a legislative approproriation from the State of Alabama. The vast majority of UAB’s federal funding comes from the NIH, the parent agency of the NIAID, the sub-agency headed by Anthony Fauci through 2023. According to various sources, UAB received $413 million from the NIH in 2023 and $407 million in 2022. Indeed, the Alabama college is in the “top 1 percent” of colleges that receive grants from this agency. Also, the NIH is not the only “public health agency” that showers money on UAB. The same year the college received more than $20 million from the CDC and $11.5 million from the National Science Foundation. The college also benefits from “private grants and contracts,” which presumably come from “partners” in Big Pharma like Pfizer, NGOs and various foundations, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2019, the University received $81.2 million from “private” grants, according to the 2020 CPA financial report. The school also derives income from patents and royalties on drugs and vaccines its faculty helped create. According to a UAB press release, “other growth areas include industry and clinical trials. Total industry awards, which include grants, funded trials and services, more than doubled (106 percent) since 2018 to exceed $150 million in 2022.” For further context, the amount of revenue UAB derives every year from federal funding and federal grants is at least $550 million more than the entire operating budget of Jacksonville State University, a four-year Alabama college with approximately 9,000 students. According to a Google AI query, 88 percent of the “medical research money” distributed to Alabama’s 34 four-year colleges went to just one university – UAB. The justification for the vast amounts of “research money” flowing into UAB coffers is that these investments “save lives” and improve the health of Alabamians and Americans. Indeed, earlier this year, an RFK, Jr. initiative at the HHS threatened to make “huge cuts to biomedical research grants” distributed to “research colleges” like UAB. According al.com columnist John Archibald, “several (UAB) professors and doctors privately were close to panic … wondering if they should pack their bags.” According to the all-important authorized narrative, possible cuts in medical research would result in horrific spikes in future deaths and unfathomable medical misery. To emphasize the requisite scare-mongering point, Archibald quoted Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin. “…You’re either pro-Alabamian and American health or you’re not,” said Mayor Woodfin. “There’s no in-between here. And when you cut funding, you hurt not just employers, but you hurt the people who voted for you as it relates to the ability for life-saving medicine, period.” In one column, Archibald urged Alabama Republican senator Katie Britt to fight to protect “life-saving research” being conducted at UAB. Not surprisingly, Britt did just this, writing a letter to President Trump to “speed up the release of NIH funds to UAB.” According to Sen. Britt’s spokesperson Grace Evans: “Senator Britt has been a strong advocate for ensuring the NIH remains the gold-standard of research and innovation across the nation and the world. She has continued to express the need for taxpayer dollars … which includes funding life-saving, groundbreaking research at high-achieving institutions like those in Alabama.” According to Sen. Britt’s letter, “withholding or delaying these funds could undermine critical research; risk jobs supported by scientific research and delay Americans’ access to life-saving treatments.” Watch this video below to find out the great secrets hidden by the government. As a jaded, skeptical contrarian, I’m happy to challenge the entire “life-saving research” narrative. For starters, it should be noted for the record that every phD and medical researcher at UAB (like all “research” universities) was spectacularly wrong about Covid and the Covid response, including the necessity for “life-saving” vaccines. I recently published an article about a UAB faculty member who spent 400 words in a guest column telling citizens the novel coronavirus was largely spread from physical surfaces. My long-time readers also know that Anthony Fauci’s successor at the NIAID was Dr. Jeanne Marrazzo, who graduated to this job after serving for years as the director of UAB’s highly-acclaimed Infectious Disease Department. While a revered and honored Birmingham resident, Dr. Marrazzo, like 99.9 percent of higher education experts, was wrong about everything Covid. Furthermore, she helped lead the safety trials for remdesivir (nicknamed “Run, Death is Near!”), a formerly FDA-rejected drug which was “researched” and “developed” by UAB and the NIH. According to many contrarians and ignored hospital whistleblowers, this “ground-breaking, life-saving” Covid “treatment” has killed thousands of American citizens. (One of UAB’s grants – for $37.5 million – was awarded to administer safety trials for this life-taking drug.) In researching this story, I found an article about another esteemed UAB faculty expert, Dr. Paul Goepfert, a “UAB vaccine expert.” In November 2020, Yellowhammer News ran a big story on this vaccine expert after Pfizer (a regular benefactor of UAB), reported its vaccine was “90 percent effective.” “That’s tremendous news,’ said Dr. Goepfert. “… The most optimistic of us were thinking about 70% effective, so 90% effectiveness is fantastic.” Goepfert advised … “if the Pfizer vaccine is indeed 90% effective, around 60% of the population would need to take the vaccine to achieve herd immunity.” Applying “follow-up journalism” to Yellow Hammer News’ glowing report, at least 60 percent of the population did get two doses of these “vaccines” and “herd immunity” did not happen. In fact, the vaccinated become much more likely to be infected once, twice or four times than the unvaccinated. When I think about the hundreds of billions of dollars distributed to research colleges like UAB, the conclusion I reach is that most of this money is being spent to develop new pills and new vaccines to treat medical conditions that aren’t getting better. Per my analysis, researchers identify a medical issue that’s allegedly causing a terrible medical condition, followed by Big Pharma rushing in to create and sell a new pill, which patients will have to take the rest of their lives. For example, researchers discovered that “high cholesterol” was the major risk factor for heart attacks and sold billions of Statins. (Also, the numeric definer of “high cholesterol” was steadily lowered). The same thing happened with blood pressure medications and anti-depressants, which half of the country now takes (including large percentages of teenagers, especially female teenagers). The nightmare depression risk is suicide, but the number of suicides have increased, perhaps because anti-depressants increase the risk of suicide. Colonoscopies – like breast cancer screenings – were supposed to be a life saver but all that happened is researchers encouraged citizens to start getting annual colonoscopies and mammograms at earlier points in their lives (when it comes to colonoscopies, “45 is the new 55.”) Like many research universities, UAB features an academic department devoted just to fighting infectious diseases. However, infectious diseases don’t show up on any Top 10 or Top 15 list of “leading causes of death.” Researchers tell us vaccines eliminated deaths from infectious diseases like chicken pox, measles and polio, but those death and illness numbers essentially vanished because of better sanitation. UAB is also famed for its cancer research. While the “war on cancer” has been waged my entire life, cancer deaths and diagnosis are higher than they’ve ever been. *** IMO, it’s entirely possible the vast Medical Research Complex has caused a net increase in deaths due to over-prescriptions and over vaccination. If the “research” is bad or dubious, the public would have been better off with no “ground-breaking, life-saving solutions” …all brought to the public by the army of scientists performing studies and experiments in NIH-funded laboratories. For those who think these comments are medical disinformation or blaspheme, my rejoinder is … try selling these “solutions” to the Amish, who don’t receive any of these shots or take any of these pills … and who are living to a ripe, healthy old age. As a final editorial point on the alleged importance of cutting-edge medical research, the world needs more contrarians who ask questions about all of the medical research that doesn’t take place at these universities. As this article documents, just one university in Alabama has received more than $5 billion in research grants and contracts in a few years. However, not one research dollar has been allocated to research the embalmers’ clots. No “ground-breaking, life-saving” research has told the public what’s causing these white, fibrous clots in tens of millions of people and what might stop them. Nor is UAB investigating or researching the source of the spike in cancer diagnoses or “turbo cancers.” If a prize was awarded for the most egregious, diabolical and lucrative scam of modern times, it might be named in honor of Anthony Fauci, John D. Rockefeller or Bill Gates … and the Medical Research Complex would win this trophy every year. Lessons from the Economic Catastrophe of 1929 (Bank Failures Played a Crucial Role in Deepening the Economic Crisis) The Great Depression of 1929 stands as one of the most significant economic crises in modern history, casting a long shadow over the global financial landscape. Sparked by a catastrophic stock market crash in October, this era of intense economic turmoil led to widespread unemployment, poverty, and social unrest. In the United States, millions lost their jobs, homes, and savings, forcing families to confront an uncertain and often dire future. This article delves into the factors that precipitated the Great Depression, its profound impact on American society, the government responses that shaped economic policy, and the global ramifications of this devastating crisis. By understanding these aspects, we can glean valuable lessons that inform current economic practices and prepare us for future economic challenges. Watch the video below! The Great Depression did not arise in a vacuum; it was the result of a confluence of several factors that had been brewing throughout the 1920s. To fully understand the causes of the Great Depression, it is essential to look at the economic environment of the 1920s, commonly referred to as the “Roaring Twenties.” This period was marked by significant economic growth, technological advances, and an unprecedented rise in consumer culture. However, this prosperity was built on shaky foundations, and cracks were starting to appear. One of the primary catalysts for the Great Depression was the rampant speculation in the stock market. During the late 1920s, an increasing number of Americans began investing in stocks, often borrowing money to purchase shares in hopes of quick profit. This speculative bubble was characterized by inflated stock prices that did not reflect the actual value of the companies. The euphoria surrounding stock investments created an unsustainable market driven by the belief that prices would continue to rise indefinitely. Unfortunately, this led to an inevitable collapse when the bubble burst in October 1929, resulting in a dramatic stock market crash that sent shockwaves throughout the economy. Bank failures also played a crucial role in deepening the economic crisis. With the collapse of the stock market, many banks faced immense financial pressure as their clients rushed to withdraw their savings, fearing for their financial security. The banking system, which had become over-leveraged during the boom years, was unable to withstand the sudden surge of withdrawals. By 1933, approximately 9,000 banks had failed, wiping out billions in savings and further destabilizing the economy. The loss of confidence in the banking system exacerbated the financial crisis, leaving consumers with little access to credit and diminishing their ability to spend, which in turn led to decreased production and even more layoffs. International trade issues also contributed to the economic downturn. In an attempt to protect American industries, the U.S. government enacted the Smoot-Hawley Tariff in 1930, which raised tariffs on hundreds of imported goods. Although the intention was to bolster the domestic economy, the result was a significant decrease in international trade. Other nations retaliated by imposing tariffs on American goods, leading to a cascading effect of reduced trade volumes and increased economic isolationism. The combination of these protective measures further deepened the global economic crisis, proving counterproductive to the very goals they sought to achieve. Additionally, economic disparities and the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few created an unstable economic environment. While the upper echelons of society reaped the benefits of the booming economy, a significant portion of the population struggled to make ends meet. This disparity in wealth led to reduced consumer spending, which is a vital component for economic growth. Without a robust consumer base, businesses struggled to maintain production levels, leading to layoffs and further economic contraction. In summary, the causes of the Great Depression were multifaceted and interconnected. The speculative practices of the stock market, bank failures, international trade barriers, and growing economic inequality all played significant roles in leading the world into one of its darkest economic periods. By examining these causes, we can draw lessons not only about financial prudence but also about the importance of a balanced economic system that supports all citizens, rather than a select few. The ramifications of the Great Depression extended far beyond economic collapse; they reshaped the social fabric of the United States. As unemployment soared, many families faced dire financial straits. By 1933, unemployment rates had skyrocketed to approximately 25%, leaving millions of Americans without jobs and many more struggling to survive on meager means. This widespread financial despair led to significant social challenges, including increased rates of homelessness, malnutrition, and mental health issues. The plight of the unemployed was visible in cities and towns across the nation. Shantytowns, often referred to as “Hoovervilles” after President Herbert Hoover, sprang up as displaced families sought shelter in makeshift huts. These communities became symbols of the suffering and hardship endured during this era. Families often found themselves living in extreme poverty, with many children going hungry or forced to drop out of school to support their families. The loss of a stable home environment had long-lasting effects on the health and education of these children, many of whom would experience generational poverty as a result. Furthermore, the Great Depression had a profound effect on the American psyche. The sense of insecurity and hopelessness permeated society, as people grappled with the loss of their dreams and aspirations. The stress of financial instability contributed to a rise in mental health issues, including anxiety and depression. Families were torn apart by financial difficulties, with some individuals resorting to desperate measures, including theft or begging. The collective trauma experienced during this period would leave scars that echoed throughout psychological studies and societal dynamics in subsequent decades. Social movements also began to emerge in response to the crises created by the Great Depression. Workers organized strikes and protests, demanding fair wages and better working conditions. Labor unions became more prominent as workers sought to protect their rights in an increasingly volatile job market. For many, invoking the power of collective bargaining became a means of survival. This surge in labor activism ultimately contributed to significant changes in labor laws and workers’ rights in the years that followed. The Great Depression also prompted shifts in public attitudes toward government intervention in the economy. Prior to this period, many believed in a laissez-faire approach, where the government primarily took a hands-off stance regarding economic affairs. However, the scale of the crisis led many to advocate for a more active role for the government in providing support for those in need. This shift in public opinion laid the groundwork for future social safety nets and government programs that aimed to assist those facing economic hardship. In conclusion, the impact of the Great Depression on society was profound and multifaceted. The economic collapse not only led to widespread unemployment and poverty but also altered the way individuals viewed work, government, and their place within society. The lessons learned during this tumultuous time continue to resonate today, emphasizing the importance of social safety nets, economic equality, and the resilience of the human spirit in the face of adversity. The video below will shock you because you will be among the first to watching this secret! In the wake of the Great Depression, the U.S. government faced intense pressure to respond to the profound economic crisis that had gripped the nation. Under the leadership of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who took office in March 1933, the government implemented a series of sweeping reforms and policies collectively known as the New Deal. These initiatives aimed to provide immediate relief to the unemployed, to stimulate economic recovery, and to implement lasting reforms to prevent future economic collapses. One of the cornerstone programs of the New Deal was the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), established in 1933. This program aimed to provide jobs for young men while simultaneously addressing environmental conservation efforts. Participants in the CCC worked on projects ranging from reforestation to building parks and trails, enabling them to support their families while also contributing to national recovery efforts. By the time the program came to an end, millions of young men had benefited from the CCC, gaining work experience and developing skills that would serve them for a lifetime. Another critical aspect of the New Deal was the creation of the Public Works Administration (PWA), which aimed to stimulate the economy by investing in large-scale public works projects. The PWA funded the construction of infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, and bridges, creating jobs for thousands and laying the groundwork for future economic growth. These projects not only provided immediate employment but also contributed to long-term improvements in public services and infrastructure. The Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) was also established to provide financial assistance to states for direct relief programs. This initiative allowed states to distribute funds to those most in need, ensuring that the most vulnerable populations received support in a timely manner. FERA marked a significant shift in government policy toward direct intervention in alleviating poverty and provided a model for future entitlement programs. In addition to these relief programs, the New Deal included regulatory reforms aimed at stabilizing the financial system. The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 separated commercial banking from investment banking, creating a barrier to limit risky financial practices that had contributed to the economic collapse. The establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sought to regulate the stock market and protect investors from fraudulent practices, restoring public confidence in the financial system. Furthermore, the New Deal brought about reforms in labor rights with the passage of the National Labor Relations Act (Wagner Act) in 1935. This legislation guaranteed the rights of workers to organize, join unions, and engage in collective bargaining. This marked a significant shift in labor relations, as it provided a legal framework for workers to negotiate better wages and working conditions. The act resulted in a surge of union membership and empowered workers in their fight for labor rights. The New Deal also included social welfare programs, such as the Social Security Act of 1935, which established a social safety net for the elderly, unemployed, and disabled. By providing financial support to vulnerable populations, the Social Security Act marked a significant transformation in the government’s role in economic security, providing a foundation for the modern welfare state. While the New Deal faced criticism from various quarters, including conservative politicians and those who argued it expanded government power too far, the overall response to the Great Depression reflected a paradigm shift in how the government perceived its role in the economy. The efforts initiated under the New Deal laid the foundation for a more interventionist government and contributed to the eventual recovery from the Great Depression. In conclusion, the government’s response to the Great Depression through the New Deal was multifaceted and transformative. Through a series of innovative programs and policies, the government sought to address the immediate needs of a struggling population while implementing reforms to safeguard against future economic crises. The legacy of the New Deal continues to shape discussions around economic policy and the role of government intervention, highlighting the importance of adaptable responses in times of crisis. The Great Depression was not confined to the United States; its effects resonated around the globe, reshaping economies, societies, and international relations. As countries struggled with the fallout from the economic crisis, they faced unique challenges that often led to varying responses and policies. In Europe, the Great Depression had a devastating impact on economies already teetering on the brink following the devastation of World War I. Nations like Germany, which were grappling with the reparations imposed by the Treaty of Versailles, experienced severe economic distress. Hyperinflation, massive unemployment, and social unrest became commonplace as economic instability eroded confidence in democratic governments. The dire economic circumstances contributed to the rise of extremist political movements, most notably the ascent of Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party. Hitler’s regime leveraged the economic despair to promote its agenda, which included aggressive nationalism and expansionist policies. In the United Kingdom, the depression catalyzed significant political and economic changes. While initially, the British government adopted a hands-off approach, the rising levels of unemployment and growing public discontent eventually compelled leaders to take action. The Labour Party, which gained power in the 1929 elections, aimed to address the crisis through public works programs and unemployment relief. However, the severity of the depression led to the eventual formation of a National Government coalition in 1931, prioritizing economic recovery over socialist reforms and implementing austerity measures that included cuts to public spending. Countries in Latin America experienced backlash as well, particularly in relation to global trade patterns. Many nations were heavily reliant on exports of agricultural products, which suffered from the drop in demand during the depression. This economic hardship led to political instability, with some countries experiencing military coups as leaders exploited the social and economic unrest. For example, in Brazil, Getúlio Vargas rose to power in 1930 amid the tumult and initiated sweeping reforms to promote industrialization, which were partially in response to the weaknesses exposed by the Great Depression. In response to the economic calamity, some nations adopted increasingly protectionist policies, including high tariffs and import quotas. This drive for economic self-sufficiency often stifled international cooperation and trade, leading to an era of economic isolationism. Protectionism, exemplified by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff in the United States, not only exacerbated domestic economic problems but also fueled tensions between nations as retaliatory measures took hold. While the depression compelled some nations to pursue isolationist policies, it also drove others to collaborate on economic recovery efforts. The establishment of agreements like the London Economic Conference in 1933 reflected the recognition of the need for coordinated international action to combat the crisis. Unfortunately, the conference failed to produce meaningful results as countries prioritized their national interests over global cooperation. The global consequences of the Great Depression also led to significant shifts in economic thought. Many countries began to explore Keynesian economic principles, which advocated for increased government intervention to stimulate demand during economic downturns. John Maynard Keynes, an influential economist, argued that governments should increase spending during periods of recession to boost consumption and promote recovery, contradicting prevailing economic philosophies that emphasized balanced budgets and limited government involvement. In summary, the Great Depression reverberated across the globe, resulting in significant economic, political, and social fallout. While some nations descended into turmoil, others sought to rebuild and adapt in response to the crisis. The diverse responses to the Great Depression underscored the interconnectedness of the world economy and highlighted the importance of international cooperation in addressing complex challenges—a lesson that continues to resonate in current global economic discussions. The Great Depression left an indelible mark on economic policy and societal norms, shaping the way governments and institutions approach economic challenges to this day. Several lessons can be gleaned from this tumultuous period, providing valuable insights for contemporary policymakers and economists. One of the most critical lessons is the importance of timely and effective government intervention in times of economic crisis. The initial laissez-faire approach taken during the early stages of the Great Depression led to a catastrophic decline in economic conditions and widespread suffering. The eventual recognition of the need for government action—exemplified by the New Deal—demonstrated that proactive measures could mitigate the consequences of an economic downturn and support recovery efforts. Today, many governments recognize the necessity of employing fiscal and monetary policies to stimulate the economy during recessions, showing the enduring influence of lessons learned from the Great Depression. Another vital takeaway is the need for strong regulatory frameworks to maintain financial stability. The lack of oversight in the financial sector contributed significantly to the events leading up to the Great Depression, resulting in risky practices and rampant speculation. In the aftermath, reforms such as the Glass-Steagall Act and the establishment of regulatory bodies like the SEC were implemented to stabilize the financial system. Modern economies continue to grapple with the balance between regulation and free-market principles, underscoring the importance of a robust regulatory framework to safeguard against financial crises. The Great Depression also highlighted the dangers of economic inequality. The concentration of wealth in the hands of a few individuals contributed to volatility and limited the purchasing power of the broader population. Economists and policymakers today increasingly recognize that equitable economic growth benefits society as a whole and contributes to overall stability. Ensuring that wealth is distributed more evenly can create a more resilient economy, capable of withstanding fluctuations and crises. Furthermore, the importance of social safety nets became apparent during the Great Depression. As millions suffered from unemployment and poverty, the need for government-supported programs to assist vulnerable populations became clear. Modern social safety nets, such as unemployment insurance and food assistance programs, are grounded in the lessons learned from this historical event. These programs are critical to providing a measure of economic security and stability in times of hardship, ensuring that individuals and families are not left to navigate crises alone. Lastly, the Great Depression emphasized the interconnectedness of global economies. The ripple effects of the economic collapse demonstrated that no nation operates in isolation. Today’s policymakers must consider the impact of global trade, investment, and economic policies, understanding that collaboration and dialogue across nations are necessary to prevent similar crises from arising. Organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have emerged in part to facilitate international cooperation and provide support to countries facing economic challenges. In conclusion, the lasting lessons of the Great Depression continue to shape economic thought and policy today. The undeniable impact of government intervention, the necessity of regulatory frameworks, the importance of addressing economic inequality, the need for social safety nets, and the recognition of global interconnectedness are all crucial insights drawn from this period of crisis. As economies face new challenges in the 21st century, these lessons remain relevant, guiding policymakers to foster resilience and stability in the face of economic uncertainty. The Great Depression of 1929 serves as a stark reminder of the fragility of economic systems and the profound impact of financial crises on society. The confluence of factors that led to this catastrophic event, including stock market speculation, bank failures, and economic inequality, created a perfect storm that devastated millions of lives. The social, economic, and political repercussions of the Great Depression reshaped the American landscape, paving the way for government intervention and regulatory reforms that continue to influence economic policy today. From the establishment of the New Deal programs to the global responses that shape modern economic thought, the lessons learned during the Great Depression are invaluable. The importance of timely governmental intervention, the need for robust regulatory frameworks, the significance of addressing economic inequality, and the necessity of social safety nets cannot be overstated. Furthermore, the crisis highlighted the interconnectedness of the global economy, underscoring the importance of collaboration and communication among nations. As we navigate the complexities of today’s economic landscape, drawing on the experiences of the past can inform our approach to future crises. The resilience of societies in the face of adversity, coupled with the commitment to enacting meaningful reforms, can contribute to a more stable and equitable economic environment. The Great Depression reminds us that while economic challenges may arise, our responses can lay the groundwork for a more sustainable future for generations to come. This Shocking Video Will Completely Change Our World First Major Risks of a Cashless Society (New Update) According to- discoveryalert.com.au: The push for a cashless society represents more than just technological evolution—it’s a coordinated effort occurring at multiple levels of government, financial institutions, and corporations worldwide. This transition is reshaping how we interact with money and raising significant questions about financial freedom and privacy. The cashless society is a necessary step in preparation for the mark of the beast. The mark of the beast, btw, is a concept based on a couple of short passages from The Revelation (end of chapter 13 and start of chapter 14), which say that there will eventually be a one world government just before Jesus returns, and the spiritual leader of that government will cause people everywhere to get a mark put in their right hand or in their forehead, without which they will not be able to buy or sell. What we have used for centuries for buying and selling is cash (or checks). We have also progressed to credit cards. So all of these would need to be replaced with the mark, in order for the prophecy to come true. Is cashless society in World a bad step? Cashless Means Automatic If money is easy to spend, it is also easy to take. Convenience can easily become tyranny. Automatic payments that come directly from your bank account illustrate the point.) The convenience of digital money that allows you to spend your money more easily, also makes it easier for banks, governments and thieves to take it.The message to depositors is clear- when you put money in a bank you are a creditor of the bank and if it goes bust you are at the bottom of the list of creditors. Your money** will be seized as part of any approved plan, perhaps even before the broke bank files for bankruptcy. Your bank account can be raided by government authorities, like the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) without notice or reason given. If the IRS believes your bank account deposit and/or withdrawals activity is suspicious and/or may involve a pattern designed to avoid reporting requirements, they may seize your account. Think your money is safe in the bank? Think again. Digital cash a bit of Trap-it can be stolen.Think digital money is safer than cash and can’t be stolen? Some actually believe that in a cashless society that crime will go down and drug dealers will go out of business. Think again. In a cashless society, theft will occur on line and in far larger amounts than cash heists. An online thief never has to confront his victim, commit violence, crack a safe, get past an alarm system, dog or armed guards and carry away his loot. Rather, in a cashless society, the cyber thief merely has to hack the systems where the ‘money” is. The online heist involves no risk of death or threat to the thief’s personal safety and can be done from anywhere in the world. Without cash, the value of currency would have no independent value outside a functioning banking system to which you have access. Your money wouldn ‘work’ without a functioning banking system. If the banking system is down due to a power outage, solar flare, financial crisis, Internet failure, hack or network crash, your money is unavailable and potentially lost. If back up files are lost how do you prove you had $15,000 in your account? Even if the digital banking system was 100% fool proof, you may end up being shut out of the system for wrong doing (actual or alleged), bad credit or failure to pay banking fees. Or you may be the victim of identity theft and as a “precaution” your account may be closed. Without access to the banking system, how will you pay your bills and buy items you need? While going cashless may be convenient when you choose to buy something, but if a purchase is thrust officiously upon you by government order, your money can be removed from your account to pay for it, conveniently of course. This type of forced convenience results in a removal of freedom of choice of how you may wish to spend your money. Property rights are the foundation of a free society. If you don’t have control, ready access or the ability to spend your money when and as you please, you do not really own it.Rather, you are a co-owner with the currency issuer (the bank) who has veto rights over your use of the currency. In a cashless society there is the loss of privacy. Digital money offers the convenience of allowing you to track and budget your money online. Such a system, however, also leaves a permanent digital foot print of where you spent your money, accesible to just about anyone who has access to your account. (crimminal hackers and government agencies). A common objection to this privacy invasion is that “If you have nothing to hide you have nothing to worry about”. Without cash, consumers are no longer market participants that evaluate tangible value based on how much cash they have in their wallets, but mindless spenders without a sense of the value of the items they are purchasing or a sense of understanding of their actual cost after incurring bank and credit card interest fees. (still sky high even after years of zero interest rate policies across the globe). In a society that uses cash, acts like making change and giving tips provide market participants with a tangible sense of economic value. Children that grow up saving money in piggy banks and counting their pennies, nickels and dimes learn the value of money through the tactil experience of handling money. A cashless society turns money and value into digital abstractions as defined and controlled by the banks and central planners. What to Own When the Dollar Collapses When it comes to preparing for an economic collapse, there are a lot of different schools of thought. Some people believe that stockpiling food and supplies is the best way to go, while others think that having a stash of cash on hand is the key to weathering the storm. But what if neither of those options is available to you? What if the only thing left to rely on is your own two hands? In this blog post, we are going to take a look at every possible solution for what to own when the dollar collapses. A part of this article is summarized in the following video: Precious metals like gold and silver have been used as a form of currency and store of value for centuries. In times of economic or political turmoil, precious metals are often seen as a safe haven asset. Investors typically turn to gold when they are worried about inflation eroding the purchasing power of their paper money holdings. Gold is also seen as a hedge against geopolitical risk. Silver, on the other hand, is more industrial in nature and is used in many different industries, from electronics to photography. As such, it can be more sensitive to economic trends. When considering investing in precious metals, it’s important to understand that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. Each investor’s circumstances are unique and will dictate what type of investment makes sense. But for those looking for an alternative to traditional investments like stocks and bonds, precious metals may be worth considering. A few additional precious metals for your consideration: When it comes to foreign currency, there are a few different options that can be considered. Investing in foreign stocks could be a very wise move. After all, if the value of the dollar plummets, then the value of foreign stocks is likely to go up since they will be priced in stronger currencies. Of course, there are risks involved with investing in foreign stocks. For one thing, you may not be familiar with the company or understand how it operates in its home country. Additionally, political and economic conditions in other countries can impact your investment (think Brexit). That being said, here are a few foreign stocks that could be worth considering: When it comes to protecting your portfolio from a potential dollar collapse, there is an option to invest in foreign bonds. Foreign bonds can offer stability and diversification, as well as the potential for higher returns. There are a number of factors to consider when investing in foreign bonds, including inflation rates, interest rates, and political risk. Inflationary risks are particularly important to consider, as high inflation can erode the value of your investment. It’s also important to be aware of currency risks – if the value of the US dollar falls relative to other currencies, your investment will lose value (in USD terms). One way to mitigate some of these risks is to invest in foreign bonds with shorter durations – that is, bonds that mature sooner rather than later. This way you’re not exposed to as much interest rate or currency risk. Another strategy is to ladder your investments, which means investing in a series of bonds with different maturity dates, so that not all of your money is invested at once. Of course, no investment is without risk – but by diversifying into foreign bonds you can help protect yourself against the potentially devastating effects of a collapsing dollar. As a side note, keep in mind that a direct purchase of foreign bonds can be a highly challenging task. Try going through an exchange-traded fund or a closed-end fund to ensure a successful purchase. The following video from Kingcademy gives a crash course on foreign bonds: While gold, land, and various commodities propose a physical form of investment, you can diversify your assets by investing in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency. Bitcoin is often called “digital gold” because like gold, it is scarce (there will only ever be 21 million bitcoins in existence), durable (it can’t be destroyed or corrupted) and portable (you can carry millions of dollars’ worth of bitcoin in your pocket). It also has similar properties to gold in that it isn’t controlled by any government or central bank. This makes it an appealing choice for people who are looking to protect their wealth from inflation or a potential collapse of the US Dollar. Other cryptocurrencies also offer similar benefits. Ethereum, for example, has been designed with the intention of being used as a global currency and platform for decentralized applications. This makes it different from Bitcoin, which was primarily designed as a digital store of value. However, both Bitcoin and Ethereum offer investors protection from inflation and the possibility of huge gains if they continue to rise in popularity and value. Collectibles can hold their intrinsic value even when the local currency loses its own value. Here are some things to consider collecting: Real estate is a solid option that shields you against the devaluation of the US dollar. Let’s review the reasons: For these reasons, investing in income-producing real estate should be considered by anyone looking to protect their wealth during an economic downturn. When the dollar collapses, land and agricultural commodities will be some of the best investments you can make. Here’s why: A major economical collapse might require more than just investing in precious metals and foreign currencies. There is a good chance you will need to live off the grid, away from your country’s control and infrastructures. Here are some things you can do to be prepared and survive: There is much more to learn about living off the grid, which is why I invite you to read my complete guide on off grid living. When the dollar collapses, barter items will become increasingly important. Here are some items that will be especially valuable. You will notice some similarities with the previous list, since both lists deal with items essential to your survival and independence. When it comes to investing in the face of an impending dollar collapse, there are a few key things you should keep in mind. First and foremost, diversification is key. Don’t put all your eggs in one basket, so to speak. Invest in a variety of assets that will hold their value even if the dollar does tank. Gold and silver are always reliable choices, but, as stated earlier, you can also look into investments like real estate or art. Another important thing to remember is that timing is everything. If you wait until after the dollar has already collapsed, it will be too late to invest. You need to get ahead of the curve and start investing now. The sooner you do, the better position you’ll be in when (or if) the bottom falls out from under the dollar. Finally, don’t panic! It’s easy to let fear take over when thinking about such a potentially catastrophic event as a currency collapse. But try to stay calm and rational; otherwise you could make some very costly mistakes with your investment portfolio. Stay safe and be prepared! First take a look at one of the most shocking videos in the world! This video actually shows us what the secret of the Trump family is related to their expressive health!!! –FULL VIDEO HERE Hiroshima. Chernobyl. Nagasaki. Fukushima. They’re practically household names at this point. As such, most people know that the consequences of the radioactive fallout spread far beyond the borders of these towns and cities. What you may not realize, however, is just how far. In some cases, the consequences might seem trivial. Take, for example, the lack of salad greens throughout France for months following the Chernobyl disaster. Meanwhile, the black rain following the atomic blasts at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, were clearly devastating. In this regard, radioactive fallout can be elusive—taking a ruinous toll on some, while others are left seemingly untouched. Either way, the most important point to remember is that fallout is the inevitable result of practically any major nuclear event. It doesn’t matter whether you’re talking about a meltdown at one of the world’s 450 active nuclear facilities, a terrorist attack with a dirty bomb, or full-scale nuclear war: fallout will be a fact of life for anyone in the surrounding area. The silver lining? Radioactive fallout isn’t nearly as instantaneous, destructive, and unpredictable as a nuclear blast or meltdown. Indeed, it is something that you can prepare for—something you can work around and navigate your way through. Is It Legal To Go Off The Grid In Your State? In this video you will discover the most shocking things hidden by your government! So in this post, we’re going to take a deeper look at the nature of nuclear fallout and delve a bit deep into the chances of surviving a nuclear attack. This means we’re going to look at the science behind it, the basics of how fallout works, the situations that can arise, and the challenges you may face in the event of a nuclear disaster. We will also pay close attention to prevailing wind patterns and geography, allowing us to gauge how much radioactive fallout you would potentially be exposed to during a nuclear attack or disaster. And perhaps most importantly, we’re going to touch on a few basic things that you can easily do in order to prepare for—and ultimately survive—short-term exposure to nuclear fallout as you make your way to safety. For the roughly 100 million Americans living within the fallout zone of an active nuclear reactor, this could be an important read. So let’s get started… What few people appreciate, however, is the true magnitude of nuclear events—or the massive amounts of toxic fallout they can produce. After all, there are a few key things that nuclear bombs and meltdowns both do exceptionally well: Pulverizing matter over a wide area, nuclear events can create a tremendous amount of debris, ash, and particulates. These rapidly increase exposure for those in the immediate area—where the highest concentrations of fallout and radiation can be found. In a subterranean explosion, called a “base surge,” this phenomenon is even more pronounced—with an effect akin to that of an active volcano. Nuclear events irradiate this pulverized material, creating an unintentional but extremely toxic concentration of debris, dust, ash, and fallout—all while local residents are most likely seeking medical attention or escape. Finally, nuclear events propel the radioactive material into the stratosphere. In fact, in some cases, nuclear events can contaminate entire wind patterns with high concentrations of irradiated fallout. That’s how these events have lasting—albeit milder—effects hundreds or thousands of miles away. When it comes to determining the extent and volume of fallout following any particular nuclear event, there are two key factors to consider. First, there’s the location of the explosion. If it’s an airburst, then comparatively little fallout will be produced (but there will be a substantial EMP wave). However, if it’s a surface explosion, material will actually be pulled up into the nuclear cloud and irradiated before it’s carried along the plume into the upper atmosphere. Consequently, you might think an explosion over water would be more favorable—but that’s just not the case. You see, the explosion evaporates water and irradiates the remaining sea salt, producing much finer and smaller radioactive particles that can spread across a much larger area. This fallout can then seed clouds and rain back down on cities hundreds or even thousands of miles away. And it goes without saying that this fallout won’t simply wash off the outside of a building. Indeed, water surface bursts can even pulverize the sea floor. During the infamous Castle Bravo nuclear test, for instance, where a massive chain reaction was accidentally triggered due to the bomb’s peculiar construction, it was reported that calcinated white powder (pulverized coral) rained down on nearby boats. Subsurface bursts, meanwhile, become even more complicated, because the base surge they produce can flood the surrounding areas with lethal doses of radiation before the fallout even arrives. The second key factor is meteorological. Though it’s frightening to think that something as devastating as nuclear fallout is determined by the way the wind blows, that, we’re afraid, is exactly the case. This means that, due to the fine particulates produced by a nuclear blast, fallout can easily be carried over hundreds of miles in a matter of hours and days. Of course, the greatest intensity of the fallout is felt in the immediate area of the nuclear event, but radioactive materials can nevertheless spread far and wide due to its volatile nature. Part of this is accomplished through the animal kingdom. For livestock who graze in fields covered in nuclear fallout, for instance, their radioactive diet might prompt their extermination (as in Chernobyl). In other instances, however, they may spread the fallout further by carrying it in their fur, droppings, and bodies. Vegetation is a concern here, too. After all, crops can be dusted with fallout from an explosion hundreds of miles away, as was the case with the French salad greens mentioned above. These plants typically have to be safely destroyed to contain exposure. But ultimately, the nature of exposure, how it works, and what constitutes a lethal dose of radiation—these things are still widely debated and little understood. But, when it comes to fallout, there are a few things that can be said for certain: Fallout isn’t always predictable, it’s got devastating potential, and knowing what to expect can provide a crucial advantage at a time when most people will still be reeling. Facing the reality of a nuclear detonation (and the fallout that comes with it) might feel overwhelming to think about. With that said, it’s far from being a hopeless scenario. Consider Akiko Takakura, for example, who was just 300 meters from ground zero at the Hiroshima explosion but survived unscathed. Eizo Nomura, meanwhile, was even closer, at just 155 meters from the hypocenter. That means he stood less than two football fields from a nuclear explosion and still lived well into his eighties. This, of course, raises the question: how did they survive a nuclear bomb going off right on top of them while so many others perished? In reality, there are four key factors that will determine whether you’re safe from the fallout of a nuclear detonation or meltdown: As we’ll cover in just a moment, time is crucial after a nuclear blast. You’ll only have about fifteen minutes to seek sufficient cover, but radiation will die down to acceptable levels in most of the blast area after just a few days. Note that fallout is at its absolute worst in the first 72 hours, so it’s crucial to evacuate immediately or stay sheltered. After a few weeks, you’ll be able to make longer trips outside (if you haven’t yet evacuated). While there are a handful of cases like those mentioned above, close proximity to a nuclear blast and the immediate fallout tend to spell certain disaster. So while it makes sense to shelter in place during the worst of the fallout, your ultimate goal will be to put a safe distance between you and the bomb’s lingering radioactive effects. In an instant, the initial fireball and scorching thermal radioactive material of a nuclear detonation gives way to what’s called gamma radiation. Gamma radiation is notoriously powerful, able to penetrate inches of heavy material (even thick lead plating) and rapidly poison the body, so shielding can play a vital role in protecting you from radiation. Notably, both of the Hiroshima survivors mentioned above were underground in a shielded concrete basement, which was the key to their survival. Radioactive materials decay at different rates, which can affect everything from timing and distance to the amount of shielding needed to protect yourself. Here, it’s worth noting that each of these factors interacts with the others. So if you’ve got a robust enough shelter, you won’t have to worry so much about distance. Likewise if you enter an area weeks after the fallout has dissipated. In that spirit, let’s take a look at how you might really survive a modern nuclear event. First things first: if you’re exposed to a nuclear detonation or meltdown, it will be a hard thing to miss. You’ll either see it, hear about it on the news, take note of a special nuclear fallout alarm, or catch on as those around you react to what’s going on. In the first crucial minutes, your very first priority will be finding the best possible shelter nearby. This is because you’ll have about fifteen minutes or less to do so. Remember that cars provide absolutely no protection, and that any (indoor) shelter is better than being outside. Once you’ve found the right place, go to the deepest room inside it. You’re basically trying to put as many walls as possible between you and the outside world, even if that means holing up in a linen closet. Note that you’ll want to make sure you’re away from doors, windows, and anything else that might be exposed to the outside world. It’s even a good idea to tape up the cracks around doors and windows, to prevent particulates from seeping in. PRO TIP While we want to stress the importance and gravity of the information we’re presenting, we also want to establish some reasons as to why you should remain calm. Once you’re confident in your shelter, you’ll want to gather supplies. We’ll talk more later about which supplies are best to keep on hand (ideally you’ve got a bug-out bag), but you’ll want to lay hands on as much food, water, and other essentials as you can find without leaving your shelter. Once the fallout sets in, it won’t be safe to eat anything (even packaged food) from outside your shelter. It’s also a good idea to remove your outer layer of clothing, take a shower, if possible, and change clothes, as this ensures that you’re not wearing fallout in your shelter. The same holds true for any pets that were outside—give them a good wash to minimize radiation exposure. After that, waiting is the name of the game. Note that in the immediate aftermath of a nuclear explosion, radiation levels will typically be extreme, and fallout will be at its worst. This is when you’re most likely to see effects like the black rain that came down on Hiroshima after the nuclear explosion there. Fortunately, the worst of this fallout will dissipate quickly. In some cases, radiation levels can drop from as much as 1,000 roentgens/hour to as little as 10 roentgens/hour in just the first three days. That’s why it’s so crucial to stay inside, away from windows and doors, during the entire first 72 hours. The video below will shock you because you will be among the first to watching this secret! This is where a radio can come in handy, giving you a crucial lifeline to the outside world. After all, for the next 72 hours, you’re going to want to stay buried as deep as possible in your shelter while the intensity of radiation outside plummets to more liveable levels. After that, in many cases it should be safe for short trips outside. Of course, there’s no guarantee, as each nuclear event plays out differently. Regardless, by the 72-hour mark, you can start thinking about making your way to safety or at least assessing your surroundings. Here, it’s important to stress that even if the nuclear event doesn’t happen in your immediate area—even if it’s hundreds of miles away—the fallout could still potentially reach you in a day or less. So, even if you’re just watching the news or monitoring releases from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) about a nuclear event on television, don’t hesitate to start making preparations. To survive nuclear attacks and ensure minimal damage, it will take more than being lucky; you should prepare. When preparing for something like a major nuclear event (and the fallout that comes with it), you run the risk of preparing in a manner that’s either too specific or too broad to be truly helpful. So instead, it’s best to break things down to their components—then focus on doing the best job with each individual component. For example, it’s generally a great idea to stock up on food and water. This is especially useful in the event of nuclear fallout, because the more food and water you have, the longer you’ll be able to stick to your shelter and avoid the radiation outside. Ideally, you’ll want at least a two week supply of food and water on hand. If and when that food is depleted, you’ll need an escape plan to get you to safety. If you’re in a city, that might mean making it to the country. Or if you’re on the coast, it might entail driving to a family cabin in the mountains. Regardless of your exit strategy, it’s important to have one, whilst keeping a few backups in case things don’t go exactly to plan. Since any realistic exit strategy will have you leaving your home after a few days, weeks, or months, it’s prudent to stock up on hazmat gear as well. MIRA Safety’s HAZSUIT, CM-6M mask, and NBC-77 SOF filter all have a long shelf life and can be paired with Kappler chemtape, tough chemical-resistant gloves, and overboots for complete protection. While it might be tempting to save a few dollars on your hazmat gear, it’s important to remember that not all suits are created equal. Ultra-cheap suits, for instance, can easily be punctured, exposing you to dangerous elements. Military suits, meanwhile, feature carbon lining and breathable composition, but they can be prohibitively expensive or hard to find (something we’re working on improving). Our HAZSUIT, on the other hand, strikes a nice compromise between the two, with reliable puncture-resistant performance and an appealing price point. It’s also great to keep an emergency package around for storms, blizzards, hurricanes or tornadoes. That kit should include a crank-style emergency radio, basic first aid kit, matches, flashlights, and other basic utilities. Once again, these are all great tools to have on hand in case of nuclear war—especially the radio. Some folks will even go as far as to prepare a special fallout room/nuclear war shelter, reinforcing walls with wood, concrete, bricks, and sand to thicken barriers and cut down on possible radiation. While this might seem like overkill, a few minor considerations can actually upgrade an existing storm/hurricane shelter to something that would increase your odds of surviving a nuclear event. Plus, even just a few inches of barrier could provide much needed protection from the gamma radiation mentioned above. In the end, there’s a wealth of knowledge to consult online, and there are plenty of contractors who would be willing to work with you on a custom setup. Perhaps the most specific preparation for nuclear fallout should be in your bug-out bag. After all, you may be at work, school, or otherwise away from home when a nuclear event occurs—in which case a bug-out bag is a crucial lifeline to get you to safety. That’s why there are a few must-have items we recommend for everyone’s bug-out bag: Thyrosafe tablets are a cheap and easy purchase—and one of the items most likely to save your life. But how do they work? Well, these powerful pills flood your thyroid with safe iodine, enough to keep your system from absorbing any for the next 24 hours. This is crucial, because radioactive iodine (I-131) is a major factor in nuclear fallout, accumulating in your thyroid and rapidly poisoning the rest your body with radiation. One little pill, however, has the power to stop that process dead in its tracks. A reliable gas mask, like the MIRA Safety CM-6M or military-grade CM-7M full-face gas mask, is a bug-out bag must-have. Although dangerous radiation can pierce concrete with ease, radioactive particles can still be extremely dangerous, especially in the immediate aftermath of a nuclear explosion. There might also be fires and chemical or biological elements in the environment. While a gas mask is only part of a larger system of personal protective equipment (PPE), it remains a staple, as it’s highly mobile, easy to carry, and can save your life in the right circumstances. To filter out that radioactive iodine, you’ll need a gas mask filter that’s reactor-rated. In this regard, the MIRA Safety NBC-77 SOF filter is a great choice, because it also provides protection against a number of other chemical, biological, and radiological threats while having a twenty-year shelf life and lightweight construction. Even if you’ve already got one at home, an emergency radio is well-worth the investment. After all, when hunkering down in a shelter, there’s a good chance that cell phones and standard phone lines will go down, but emergency radio broadcasts will let you know whether it’s safe to go outside. Note that these things cost just a few bucks, they’re compact, and they can be just as much of a lifesaver as the Thyrosafe tablets. Lastly, pack whatever else fits, including a hazmat suit and chemtape for sealing things up. Granted, these inclusions won’t necessarily be practical in most bug-out bags—indeed, it might be a better idea to just double down on your food supplies. Nonetheless, a hazmat suit and chemtape can be helpful for navigating the environment after you survive the first 72 hours. A gas mask, however, is a definite must-have, because it can be carried with ease and donned in a matter of seconds, while a hazmat suit can take substantially longer to deploy. Of course, this is all in addition to what you might already have in your standard bug-out bag—but it shouldn’t add too much weight. Note that MIRA Safety even offers a special package that includes a gas mask, filter, Thyrosafe tablets, and a drop-leg pouch to store it all. Regardless, these key preparations are easy to make—and potentially extremely useful in other situations as well (particularly in relation to the gas mask). We understand that the prospect of surviving the aftermath of a nuclear event is rather daunting. Hopefully, however, it seems a bit less overwhelming than it did just a few minutes ago. Make no mistake—it would still almost certainly be the single most challenging day of your life. And a variety of factors will inevitably remain well outside of your control. However, with a bit of careful preparation and consideration, you can vastly increase your own odds of surviving the nightmare of a nuclear explosion and attendant fallout. Remember: it’s all about those crucial first 72 hours. From the first fifteen minutes to those first three days, simple decisions could have massive consequences for your survival. So find the safest possible shelter, hunker down, and wait out the worst of the radiation. Granted, even after everything we’ve covered, even after preparation and planning, you’ve still got to be ready in case things go awry. So, what will you do if your primary shelter is suddenly out of the question? What if you don’t have a bug-out bag handy? Preparing for multiple contingencies with layered plans can further improve your chances of survival and help you adapt to challenges on the fly. Therefore, be sure to identify good shelter locations near the places you spend most of your time, and stock up on backups wherever possible.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: US stock market today: Why S&P 500 falls while Dow, Nasdaq rise — here’s which major stocks made the biggest moves today?
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/us-stock-market-today-why-sp-500-falls-while-dow-nasdaq-rise-heres-which-major-stocks-made-the-biggest-moves-today/articleshow/125253384.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-11T16:20:41Z
Full Content:
US stock market today ended mixed. The S&P 500 fell 0.3%, dragged by tech losses, while the Dow Jones rose 85 points (0.2%) and the Nasdaq slipped 0.6%. Nvidia dropped 3% after SoftBank sold its $5.83 billion stake. CoreWeave plunged 11% after weak guidance hit the AI sector. The XLK tech fund fell nearly 1%. A weak ADP jobs report showed private payrolls down 11,000 per week, signaling slowing growth. The Senate passed a bill to end the shutdown, boosting sentiment but markets stayed cautious. Listen to this article in summarized format Unlock AI Briefing and Premium Content (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Zdeno Chára, Alexander Mogilny, Joe Thornton among eight inducted into 2025 Hockey Hall of Fame class Are Facebook ads helping users buy illegal drugs by mail in Canada - Drugs travel through an ad to a postal delivery; $9 million worth of illegal drugs were turned over to police in 2024 by Canada Post Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Bihar Exit Polls 2025: NDA set for clear majority Delhi blast charges ‘fake’: Family of Dr. Muzammil Prez Murmu in Angola: Turning point for India’s outreach ‘Those responsible will be...’: Rajnath on Delhi Blast PM Modi breaks silence on blast in Red Fort, Delhi Red Fort blast: World leaders express shock Pulwama trail in Red Fort blast US Senate passes bill to end govt shutdown, sends to House 'We're getting a fair deal...': Trump on trade talks with India Was Delhi Red Fort blast a terror attack? Bihar Exit Polls 2025: NDA set for clear majority Delhi blast charges ‘fake’: Family of Dr. Muzammil Prez Murmu in Angola: Turning point for India’s outreach ‘Those responsible will be...’: Rajnath on Delhi Blast PM Modi breaks silence on blast in Red Fort, Delhi Red Fort blast: World leaders express shock Pulwama trail in Red Fort blast US Senate passes bill to end govt shutdown, sends to House 'We're getting a fair deal...': Trump on trade talks with India Was Delhi Red Fort blast a terror attack? Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Prime Articles Top Slideshow Top Commodities Private Companies Top Story Listing Top Definitions Most Searched IFSC Codes Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Prime Video ad tier reaches 315 million monthly viewers globally
URL: https://www.marketingweek.com/prime-video-ad-tier-viewers-315-million/
Time Published: 2025-11-11T16:13:24Z
Full Content:
The announcement follows Netflix’s introduction of a new audience metric last week, reporting more than 190 million active monthly ad-supported viewers. Prime Video now reaches an average of more than 315 million ad-supported viewers each month globally, according to figures released by Amazon. The streaming giant introduced advertising in the UK in February 2024 and first reported audience data in April of that year, when its monthly ad-supported reach stood at 200 million. Prime Video now reaches an average of more than 315 million ad-supported viewers each month globally, according to figures released by Amazon. The streaming giant introduced advertising in the UK in February 2024 and first reported audience data in April of that year, when its monthly ad-supported reach stood at 200 million. Amazon says the 315 million figure represents an unduplicated average monthly active ad-supported audience across Originals, licensed series and films, live sports, events and free ad-supported live channels on Prime Video. The estimate is based on internal data collected over 12 months from September 2024 to August 2025, with some variations depending on launch dates. Over the past 18 months, Prime Video has rolled out advertising in 16 markets, including Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the US.What Amazon’s 14,000 layoffs reveal about AI’s grip on marketing Prime Video Advertising’s vice president Jeremy Helfand describes this number as a “transformative milestone” for the streamer. “This expanded audience across 16 countries demonstrates our customer-obsessed approach to enhancing the viewing experience while delivering powerful opportunities for brands,” he says. The announcement follows Netflix’s introduction of a new audience metric last week, reporting more than 190 million monthly active viewers (MAV) globally for its ad tier. Netflix defines MAV as members who have watched at least one minute of ads in a month, multiplied by the estimated average number of people per household. Netflix said it hopes the MAV metric will become an industry-wide standard, noting that streaming platforms currently lack a universal measure for ad reach.Netflix hits 190 million monthly ad viewers according to new metric Separately, Amazon today (11 November) announced the international expansion of its AI-powered video generator tool to advertisers in the UK. The tool lets advertisers create “high-motion” videos from product images, existing videos or Amazon product detail pages. For example, a brand could create a video of a watch on someone’s wrist or a toy being actively played with by uploading an image of the product. In the US, where the feature launched in June, Amazon says more than 60% of products promoted with the video generator had never been advertised on the sponsored video page before. In the third quarter, total ad revenue across all of Amazon jumped 24% year-on-year, reaching $17.7bn, outpacing other tech giants, including Meta, Google and YouTube. AI is taking jobs from marketers in areas such as SEO and ad production, but the challenge remains the same: make yourself irreplaceable by creating value. Marketing Week’s weekly round-up of the technology stories that impact the marketing sector: from AI to martech, regulation to public perceptions. Amazon’s ad ranks in the top 7% of all ads this month, according to the latest The Works study. Cheez-It became the biggest launch in its category in four years, when it launched last year. Owner Kellanova has ambitions in the long-term to create an “iconic” brand in the UK. UK marketers are more likely to be “fully confident” in their abilities with AI, but there remains a gap between application and training. New research from LinkedIn’s B2B Institute and Ehrenberg-Bass urges B2B marketers to focus on being findable as much as being memorable. Mark Vile joins the travel company after 18 years at Compare the Market where he helped create the Meerkat brand platform. MWCR Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 16310489 Registered office at Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND
--------------------------------------------------

Title: What Amazon’s 14,000 layoffs reveal about AI’s grip on marketing
URL: https://www.marketingweek.com/amazon-layoffs-ai/
Time Published: 2025-11-11T06:42:31Z
Full Content:
AI is taking jobs from marketers in areas such as SEO and ad production, but the challenge remains the same: make yourself irreplaceable by creating value. Amazon’s decision to cut 14,000 jobs this quarter – roughly half the number initially feared – confirms what most boardrooms already know: artificial intelligence isn’t just a productivity tool, it’s a restructuring driver. Forget the polite language about “culture” from CEO Andy Jassy or “people and customers” from HR chief Beth Galetti. The driver is efficiency. Investors want AI-level margins, not human-level headcount. And Amazon isn’t the outlier. Nestlé plans to remove 12,000 white-collar roles over the next two years. Salesforce has already replaced 4,000 customer people with the rise of AI agents. UPS has shed nearly 50,000 jobs since 2024, citing machine learning. Agency Dentsu has trimmed 3,400 worldwide. Not all job losses are liked to AI or marketing – but many are. Check your LinkedIn feed and you’ll see the fallout: marketers, analysts, planners – ‘open to work’. Marketing Week’s 2025 Career & Salary Survey captured that unease across the industry. (If you haven’t already, do your profession a favour and take part in the latest survey before 21 November.) The pattern is clear. AI is collapsing the space between strategy and execution – the white-collar layer where much of marketing, operations and customer service used to live. The search-optimisation industry – worth billions globally – exists largely to please algorithms, not customers. As users move from classic search to AI search with Perplexity, ChatGPT and Claude, traditional SEO will fade. It’ll be replaced by a new layer of ‘generative engine optimisation’ (GEO) equally detached from customer value, perhaps just more automated. Posting, scheduling and A/B testing across Meta and TikTok are already automatable. The ‘digital native’ roles created in the 2010s – once seen as the new frontier – are now the first to go. The irony: the generation that disrupted traditional marketing is now being disrupted by its own tools. Routine copywriting and influencer work are being commoditised fast. Virtual influencers have already fronted campaigns for beauty brands like L’Oréal offering perpetual, low-cost exposure – without mood swings, agents or scheduling conflicts. The majority of consumers cannot tell – or do not care – that the presenter isn’t human. Coca-Cola’s first AI-generated classic Coke caravan holiday commercial marked a turning point. Writing on X, Gravity Falls creator Alex Hirsch captured the industry’s unease: “FUN FACT: @CocaCola is ‘red’ because it’s made from the blood of out-of-work artists!” The Verge, meanwhile, described Coke’s latest 2025 AI Christmas ads as “a sloppy eyesore”. But it’s early days and the shift is inevitable. I once flew 30 people to South Africa for 30 seconds of beach footage. If AI can render 50 versions of the same ad overnight, be my guest. Mondelez just spent $40m on generative video platforms promising to halve production costs. In that kind of math, efficiency always wins the budget battle. Good news. AI may bring rigour to an area marketers have long avoided: measurement. The excuse that “it’s too complex to track” is eroding. AI-driven attribution and modelling could finally give the industry what it has lacked for decades – a standardised way to diagnose growth and prove ROI. For a discipline often allergic to evidence, there’s a cultural reset coming. I’ve read 20 corporate layoff memos this quarter. Beyond AI, they all mention “less critical roles” and “unnecessary layers”. Context matters. European GDP (the UK included) will grow just over 1% this year; the US a tad more. Across most markets, budgets are tightening. In that climate, CEOs are asking one question with increasing regularity: does this role contribute to growth? If the answer is unclear, the role is at risk. I’ve said it for years – if marketers don’t stand for growth, they stand for nothing. Growth is the reason marketing exists. Yet large parts of the discipline still retreat into comfortable abstractions of ‘brand love’ and ‘storytelling’. In a world where CEOs get more serious about growth, those arguments won’t survive the meeting. Ask: what are my company’s top three priorities? What are my customers’ top three priorities? The overlap is where growth happens. That’s the value creation zone. Maybe a competitor has a better product. Maybe your pricing’s off. Maybe your media strategy is underpowered. Whatever your job description says, if you operate inside the value creation zone – and make that visible – your role will be relevant. Which parts of your job could AI do better or cheaper? If large chunks can be automated, they will be. You can’t out-AI AI. Replace yourself before someone else does. Let machines handle the routine while you trade up to what they still can’t do well: judgment, creativity and the courage to ask questions no dataset can answer. AI will add mediocrity – at scale. Boston Consulting Group ran a revealing experiment: two groups solved the same marketing problems; one using AI, one without. AI helped the group perform 40% better in a product innovation task but resulted in 41% less diversity of ideas. Machines replicate knowledge; they can’t generate intuition. AI makes average things for average people (hello, Mico). Great marketers work on the edges – where ideas still feel slightly dangerous. Very soon, every marketer will face their own ‘Matrix moment’ – accept automation’s illusion of control, or take back the job of creating growth. Here’s the choice: Take the blue pill, and hand over your marketing to the machines (Meta and co are building that version of the future). Take the red pill, and step up as a growth leader who uses AI as leverage. The choice is existential. In the AI economy, marketing rainmakers stay. Everyone else may become optional. Amid wider strategic shifts, some B2B firms are experimenting with new senior roles in an effort to “redefine” marketing. Emotion and vulnerability are celebrated in advertising, but often lacking in leadership. It’s a double standard marketers must stop ignoring. Marketers who see brand building as an end in itself are mistaking the work they do for the results it delivers. New research from LinkedIn’s B2B Institute and Ehrenberg-Bass urges B2B marketers to focus on being findable as much as being memorable. Mark Vile joins the travel company after 18 years at Compare the Market where he helped create the Meerkat brand platform. Tom Fishburne is founder of Marketoon Studios. Follow his work at marketoonist.com or on X @tomfishburne See more of the Marketoonist here We arm you with all the numbers you need to tackle the week ahead. MWCR Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 16310489 Registered office at Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Job cuts hit 22-year October high as retail layoffs from Amazon to Target mount ahead of holidays
URL: http://digiday.com/media/job-cuts-hit-22-year-october-high-as-retail-layoffs-from-amazon-to-target-mount-ahead-of-holidays/
Time Published: 2025-11-11T05:01:00Z
Full Content:
Join us Dec. 1-3 in New Orleans for the Digiday Programmatic Marketing Summit This story was first published by Digiday sibling Modern Retail. U.S. firms announced the most job cuts for any October in more than 20 years, fueled in part by mass layoffs at major retail companies. Employers slashed 153,074 jobs last month, up 175% from a year earlier, according to a Thursday report from global outplacement and executive coaching firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. October’s total marked the highest for the month since 2003, driven largely by cost-cutting, though artificial intelligence ranked as the second-most cited factor. Year-to-date layoffs were already at their highest level since 2020 before the heavy downsizing that occurred last month. Retail has been one of the hardest hit industries this year, behind only warehousing and non-profits. So far in 2025, the sector has announced 88,664 job cuts, a 145% increase from the 36,136 recorded through October last year. The cuts come after a series of large-scale reductions across the retail industry. Amazon announced plans last week to eliminate 14,000 corporate roles as part of CEO Andy Jassy’s effort to streamline operations and reduce bureaucracy. Target, meanwhile, shed 1,800 white-collar positions amid slowing sales. Other consumer-facing companies such as Starbucks and UPS have pared back staff in recent months. “There was an enormous amount of hiring that happened in that post-Covid period in retail, and retail is facing some other specific issues,” Andrew Challenger, workplace and labor expert for Challenger, Gray & Christmas, told Modern Retail in an interview. “Tariffs, immigration and persistent inflation — all of that can be affecting retail in ways that are causing [retailers] to have to make strategic changes.” All told, the wave of layoffs has cast a pall heading into the peak holiday shopping season, retail’s busiest time of year. It’s been a tough year for the industry thanks to stubborn inflation, bleak consumer sentiment and President Donald Trump’s trade war — the U.S. average tariff rate is at its highest level since 1934, according to The Budget Lab at Yale University. Retail’s corporate belt-tightening ahead of the holidays underscores the pressure consumer companies are under to drive sales and maintain profitability in a tough economic climate. “Retailers are simply trying to do more with less,” said Sky Canaves, a retail analyst at eMarketer. The timing of October’s layoffs is particularly striking given how close they are to the holiday shopping season. “Over the last decade, companies have shied away from announcing layoffs in the fourth quarter, so it’s surprising to see so many in October,” Challenger said in the report. “With the onset of social media, and the ability for workers to share their negative experiences with their employers, the trend of announcing layoffs before the holidays — a practice that seemed particularly cruel — fell away.” Retailers are also pulling back on holiday hiring. Companies are expected to add fewer than 500,000 seasonal positions this year — the lowest since 2009, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas. Several retailers, including Kohl’s and Target, have declined to disclose their 2025 seasonal hiring plans, a departure from previous years. Some companies plan to keep the seasonal hiring levels unchanged from 2024. Amazon said it plans to hire 250,000 workers for the peak holiday season, while Bath & Body Works announced plans to hire 32,000 workers, the same as last year for both companies. “While we could see a late hiring push if holiday sales surprise to the upside, the cautious pace of announcements so far suggests that companies are not betting on a big seasonal surge,” Challenger said. He added that seasonal employers are contending with a mix of challenges this year, including lingering inflation and tariffs. As such, companies are increasingly relying on automation and permanent staff over large waves of seasonal hires. “It’s not that people aren’t going to stores — foot traffic isn’t expected to fall much — but with fewer staff, the quality of the consumer experience could suffer.” EMarketer’s Canaves warned that leaner staffing could become a self-fulfilling cycle. “When shoppers have bad experiences in stores because they can’t get sales help or the lines are too long, they’re less likely to return,” she said Still, expectations for consumer spending power during the holidays offer a glimmer of hope. The National Retail Federation projects U.S. holiday sales will surpass $1 trillion for the first time in 2025, rising 3.7-4.2% over last year. EMarketer’s own forecast is slightly more conservative at $1.369 trillion, up 3.6% year-over-year. Canaves said the outlook remains solid because “people keep spending even if they have to borrow or use payment plans like buy-now, pay-later to do so.” But that spending strength is increasingly uneven. “We’re kind of seeing a K-shaped consumer economy, where upper-income consumers are spending more and lower-income consumers are spending less,” she said. Amazon’s latest layoffs mark the company’s most sweeping since 2022. The tech and retail giant more than doubled its workforce during the pandemic, expanding from roughly 800,000 employees in 2019 to more than 1.6 million by 2021 to meet surging e-commerce demand. Challenger, Gray & Christmas’s recent report flagged cost-cutting and artificial intelligence as the primary drivers behind the October layoffs. However, Amazon CEO Andy Jasy told analysts on a quarterly earnings call last week that the e-commerce giant’s latest layoffs were about “culture,” not finance or AI. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, … you end up with a lot more layers,” Jassy said. Reducing those layers is all part of Amazon’s mission to operate “like the world’s largest startup,” he added. While the cuts affect everything from software engineering to video games to advertising, retail management roles were hit hardest, according to internal data cited by Business Insider. That may reflect a broader sea change within Amazon, as its retail business now accounts for just 40.5% of total revenue, down from 60% in 2018, per e-commerce intelligence firm Marketplace Pulse. Target’s restructuring followed a similar rationale. The company previously told Modern Retail its decision to cut roughly 1,000 team members and leave another 800 roles unfilled was meant to speed up decision-making rather than save money.“ The complexity we’ve created over time has been holding us back,” Michael Fiddelke, Target’s chief operating officer and incoming CEO, told employees in an email the company provided to Modern Retail. “Too many layers and overlapping work have slowed decisions, making it harder to bring ideas to life.” The real issue is measurement: without a clear way to separate agentic visitors from humans, some buyers are getting jittery — and a few are already pulling ad spend. There’s a tone shift in publishers’ Q3 earnings: focus on video, direct audiences and AI licensing to offset search-driven ad revenue declines. Daily Mail’s clickthroughs drop 80–90% when Google AI Overviews appear, but traffic impact remains minimal due to strong direct traffic. Get access to tools and analysis to stay ahead of the trends transforming media and marketing Visit your account page to make changes and renew. Get Digiday's top stories every morning in your email inbox. Follow @Digiday for the latest news, insider access to events and more.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Paramount Posts Q3 Loss of $257 Million in First Earnings Post-Skydance Deal
URL: https://www.thewrap.com/paramount-earnings-q3-2025/
Time Published: 2025-11-10T21:24:43Z
Full Content:
Pro Available to WrapPRO members The media giant’s revenue was flat at $6.7 billion, weighed down by declines in TV advertising and distribution In its first quarter since the closing of Skydance’s $8 billion acquisition, Paramount swung to a loss of $257 million as revenue growth was flat at $6.7 billion. The results for its third quarter, which were weighed down by declines in linear TV advertising and distribution, included a $13 million loss under its new owner Skydance and $244 million under the media giant’s previous leadership. The company reported $2.58 billion in revenue for the quarter under previous leadership and $4.12 billion under new leadership. Despite missing Wall Street expectations, Paramount shares jumped 6% in after-hours trading on Monday as the David Ellison-led media giant raised its cost savings target to $3 billion and outlined its vision for the future. “While we’re still in the early stages, this is only day 96,” Paramount CEO David Ellison told analysts during the company’s earnings call. “We’re energized by the progress we’ve made and the clear path ahead.” Here are the results: Net loss: A loss of $257 million, compared to a profit of $1 million in the year-ago period. Earnings per share: Loss of 37 cent per share, with an adjusted loss of 12 cents a share, compared to earnings of 38 cents per share expected by analysts surveyed by Yahoo Finance. Revenue: $6.7 billion, compared to $6.99 billion expected by analysts surveyed by Yahoo Finance. Streaming subscribers: Added 1.4 million subscribers for a total of 79.1 million globally. Starting in the fourth quarter, Paramount will no longer include free trialers in its total subscriber count. As of the end of the third quarter, free trialers totaled 1.2 million. Revenue in its streaming business grew 17% year-over-year to $2.17 billion, driven by a 24% increase in Paramount+ revenue to $1.77 billion. Paramount’s streaming business posted a profit of $340 million, including $105 million pre-merger and $235 million post-merger, compared to $49 million a year ago. But the TV Media segment was a drag on the overall results, with revenue falling 12% to $3.8 billion, driven by a 12% decline in advertising on lower political spending and underreported revenue from an international sales partner in 2024; a 7% decline in affiliate revenue due to cord-cutting; and a 22% decline in licensing and other revenue due to the timing of content delivery. The segment posted a profit of $822 million, down from a profit of $936 million a year ago. Filmed Entertainment revenue grew 30% to $756 million, primarily due to the consolidation of Skydance licensing and other revenue. However, the segment swung to a loss of $49 million due to lower than expected performance of its film slate during the quarter, with disappointments like “Smurfs” and “The Naked Gun.” The latest quarterly results come as the company has submitted three separate bids to acquire all of Warner Bros. Discovery, which ranged between $19 and $23.50 per share and were rejected for being too low. It also comes on the heels of Paramount’s $150 million purchase of Bari Weiss’ The Free Press. Paramount has raised its cost savings target to $3 billion, up from $2 billion previously. That plan has included roughly 1,000 layoffs thus far, with additional cuts to come at a later date. In addition to the formal layoffs, Paramount will begin a phased return to office in January. Approximately 600 employees chose voluntary severance packages in its first phase. More than $1.4 billion in savings will have been generated between the merger closing in August and the end of 2025, with an additional $1 billion plus in cost savings planned for 2026. It expects to complete those cuts by the end of 2027, generating approximately $800 million in 2026 and between $400 million and $500 million in 2027. In addition to labor, the media giant is also looking at areas such as real estate, procurement and workflow to find efficiencies. As part of a “comprehensive strategic review” of its assets, Paramount recently divested the Argentinian free-to-air network Telefe and is in the process of divesting Chilevision in Chile, which the company expects to complete in the first quarter of 2026. These divestitures will reduce the company’s workforce by approximately 1,600 additional employees. At the same time, Paramount plans to invest in excess of $1.5 billion in programming in 2026, including streaming investment in the UFC, Paramount+ originals, third-party catalog licensing and ramping up its film slate, with plans to target at least 15 movies per year over the next few years. The company has set new deals with the UFC, Professional Bull Riders and Zuffa Boxing, greenlit new series such as Jeremy Strong’s “9/12” and Nicole Kidman and Elle Fanning’s “Discretion,” and forged partnerships with“South Park” creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, The Duffer Brothers, Will Smith and James Mangold. Though Taylor Sheridan is set to exit the company after his contract expires in 2028, he has also been tapped to work on a film adaptation of video game franchise “Call of Duty” with Peter Berg. Paramount also plans to raise prices for Paramount+ in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2026. Leadership has said they would look to transform Paramount into a technological leader in entertainment, with plans to use tools like virtual production and AI, which would increase efficiencies, help with search, discovery and recommendations and boost content creation. “We really view AI as a tool for artists to be able to iterate more quickly, to be able to tell better stories and basically create even further accessibility, really, across the entire content creation pipeline,” Ellison said. “So from that standpoint, we think technology is going to impact all aspects of our business and we want to be a leader in that space.” Paramount will also leverage Skydance’s existing relationship with David’s father Larry Ellison’s Oracle, which the company has paid $2 million for software support agreements and database licenses since the merger closed. Paramount+, Pluto TV and BET+ will move to a unified backend infrastructure by mid-2026 and the media giant will use a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system by early 2027, which David Ellison said would lead to “significant operational efficiency” across the company and “give better real-time information to managers.” “The better visibility you have in terms of how the company is doing on a day-to-day basis, that improves your decision making. So we’re in the process of deploying that,” he added. Ellison has argued the Paramount would be the “best partner” for WBD, adding that other potential acquirers would need to overcome “significant (perhaps insurmountable) hurdles given their dominant market positions.” In an Oct. 13 letter to WBD’s board, Paramount argued that the value to shareholders in a break-up would be less than $15 per share or roughly $18 to $20 per share including a “robust, yet highly uncertain, M&A premium for Warner Bros,” an individual familiar with the matter confirmed to TheWrap. In order to sweeten the bid, Ellison even offered Warner CEO David Zaslav a co-CEO and co-chairman title, as well as increasing the portion of the bid paid in cash to shareholders from 60% to 80% and increasing the breakup fee from $2 billion to $2.1 billion. CNBC reported that Paramount is also considering taking a tender offer directly to WBD shareholders and formalizing a hostile bid for the company. If successful in acquiring WBD, TheWrap previously reported that Ellison would look to merge HBO Max and Paramount+ into a “super platform” under one scenario being considered. The theatrical model is also at the core of his vision and a combined company would look to target an output of 30 films per year as part of its commitment to that model. “It’s important to know that there’s no must-haves for us — we really look at this as buy versus build, and we absolutely have the ability to build to get to where we want to go,” Ellison said on Monday’s earnings call when asked about WBD and the company’s M&A strategy. “We believe we can achieve our goals with our creative content engines, we believe we can achieve our streaming goals and that we can drive enterprise efficiency and create value and long term free cash flow generation all through the building standpoint.” Ellison said Paramount would make M&A decisions that tie back into its core principles. “We’re fortunate that we have the balance sheet to be able to be opportunistic when we think that M&A will accelerate our goals, but we’re also long term disciplined owner operators,” Ellison said. “So from that standpoint, we’ll always approach things through the lens of how do we maximize value for shareholders.” Paramount president Jeff Shell also reiterated that the company would hang onto its cable networks. “This company has a history of spinning assets and it hasn’t gone very well for us and we think for others,” Shell explained. “One of the big rationales for a spin is that when companies are standalone, they can focus on driving the value of the brands that they have in a more specific way. We are going to do that, but we’re going to do that within our company so our shareholders get the value of that.” He also noted that the declines in broadcast are “very modest” compared to cable and that its content is “increasingly a huge driver” for streaming subscriber growth and engagement. Shell said the company plans to increase its investments in CBS and look at its brands such as Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central and BET to see if it can “transform those businesses in a digital way to drive value long term and make them increasing pieces of our overall scale and global streaming strategy.” Looking ahead, Paramount expects $8.1 billion to $8.3 billion in revenue, or growth of 1% to 4% year over year, for the fourth quarter, driven by strength in streaming offset by declines in the TV Media and Filmed Entertainment segments. It also expects $500 million to $600 million in adjusted operating income. Additionally, the company anticipates a restructuring charge of $500 million in the fourth quarter related to its “realignment and transformation.” Paramount+ net adds are expected to come in lower than the third quarter due to the termination of two international hard bundles. On a full year basis, it expects streaming to be profitable in 2025, but losses in the fourth quarter due to “seasonally-weighted content costs.” Theatrical revenue is also expected to be down as it reworks its film slate and is impacted by the comparison to “Mission: Impossible – The Final Reckoning.” Starting in the first quarter of 2026, Paramount will change its reporting structure to reflect its reorganization. The move will house all production and IP in one place with Studios, including almost all licensing revenue, while the remaining TV Media segment will be comprised of its broadcasting and cable businesses. For 2026, it is forecasting $30 billion in revenue, a 4% increase from the midpoint of its 2025 forecast, driven by streaming revenue growth due to price increases and the termination of additional international hard bundles, and adjusted operating income of $3.5 billion, driven by progress in cost-cutting and investments in content and technology. The company expects a “more moderate” decline in linear advertising versus 2025 due to political spending in 2026, new ad agency partnerships, the sale of Telefe and the planned sale of Chilevision. It also expects to grow streaming profitability in 2026, driven by the UFC, South Park and “several hundred million” dollars of investment in film and series for Paramount+, and return to profitability in its Filmed Entertainment segment on a full-year basis in 2026. Paramount expects to return to investment grade debt metrics by the end of 2027. The company ended the quarter with $3.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $13.6 billion in gross debt. It also has $433 million in debt maturing over the next 12 months.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: S&P 500 profits surge on price hikes, cost cuts
URL: https://www.thestreet.com/markets/corporate-earnings-surge-as-main-street-reels
Time Published: 2025-11-10T19:34:43Z
Description: After President Donald Trump enacted tariffs this spring, stocks tumbled on fears that higher import taxes would crimp corporate profits, leading to layoffs ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ‘Yikes’: Top investment bank looks under the hood of the economy and finds ‘the labor market doesn’t look that good’
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/yikes-top-investment-bank-looks-162906862.html
Time Published: 2025-11-10T16:29:06Z
Description: We've heard the labor market is in a "low-hire, low-fire" kind of environment. The "low hire" part seems to be true, the other not so much.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ‘Yikes’: Top investment bank looks under the hood of the economy and finds ‘the labor market doesn’t look that good’
URL: https://fortune.com/2025/11/10/economy-bad-low-hire-fire-labor-market-recession-levels-ubs/
Time Published: 2025-11-10T16:29:06Z
Full Content:
Nick Lichtenberg is business editor and was formerly Fortune's executive editor of global news. Eva is a fellow on Fortune's news desk. A leading investment bank has delivered an arresting diagnosis of the U.S. economy: the labor market, long a pillar of resilience, may be in real trouble. In their latest economic outlook, UBS economists led by Jonathan Pingle painted a picture of mounting weakness that extends well beyond headline job numbers, warning of a growing risk to households and the broader recovery. The latest “US Economics Weekly” note from the Swiss investment bank came with bated breath ahead of the impending end of the federal government shutdown. Economists and market-watchers have been deprived of federal economic data for over 40 days, something that former Bureau of Labor Statistics commissioner Erica Groshen likened to “flying blind” in late October. If the government does reopen, Pingle’s team said it expects jobs data for September to be released next week, and potentially the October inflation report, the Consumer Price Index. Economists need that data now more than ever. For much of the year, top economists, including Fed Chair Jerome Powell, have said we’re in a “low hire, low fire” jobs market. For much of the year, employers were laconic in hiring, and seemed afraid to fire their workers; perhaps still wounded from the pandemic-era “Great Resignation.” UBS isn’t alone on Wall Street in worrying that, maybe the “low-fire” part of the equation isn’t quite true anymore. Now, “there are plenty of available workers that, on the whole, businesses probably don’t feel the need to hold on to workers for longer than necessary,” Veronica Clark, a Citigroup Inc. economist, told Bloomberg. Meanwhile, Dan North, senior economist at Allianz Trade Americas, also told Bloomberg that “you’ve got a substantial number of well-established companies making pretty big head cuts.” Firing is running higher than advertised, UBS argued, citing the fact that “unemployment insurance claims, layoff announcements and WARN notices have all been running ahead of the pre-pandemic pace. Even the lagged Business Employment Dynamics data, the gold standard of data on job creation and job destruction dynamics has been showing the pace of job loss at or above the pre-pandemic pace through the latest data.” Indeed, cuts have accelerated sharply. October saw 157,000 layoffs announced by corporations, per industry standard Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the highest monthly total since July 2020. Technology and warehousing were hit especially hard, with cuts also linked to automation and artificial intelligence.​ The year-to-date tally? A startling 760,000 seasonally adjusted cuts through October, far outpacing the same period in 2024 and running higher than any year since 2009 — the aftermath of the Great Financial Crisis. Major companies are taking action: Amazon cut 14,000 corporate roles, UPS has slashed 48,000 jobs over the past year, and Target eliminated nearly 2,000 staff in a single sweep.​ Workers are getting thrown into a growing pool of others not finding jobs. UBS likens the job market to a bathtub: with outflows (layoffs) steady and inflows (hiring) slowing, the water level (total jobs) is bound to fall. The hiring rate, as measured by multiple business surveys, has dropped to levels historically seen only in recessions. Excluding healthcare and social assistance, which have been relatively steady, private-sector payrolls have been declining by an average of 36,000 jobs per month. Since the start of the year, household employment as measured by the main government survey has been falling by about 72,000 jobs per month through August. Such a pace is “well below” the rate required to keep up with population growth, let alone maintain a stable unemployment rate, which has now crept up to a post-2021 high. Labor force participation has slipped, and more than 800,000 people have left the labor force but say they still want a job.​ Economists note the broadest measure of underemployment, known as U-6, has jumped by 0.6 percentage points since January to 8.1%. That’s now 1.3 percentage points higher than at the end of 2019. Notably, the rise isn’t just about people out of work: more Americans are working part-time for economic reasons, another classic sign of slackening demand. “That is exactly the opposite of what should happen under a negative labor supply shock stemming from immigration,” UBS wrote, referring to the Trump administration’s argument that immigration restrictions would tighten the labor market. Job openings continue to decline: as of the end of October, Indeed.com reported that postings had sunk to their lowest level since 2021, with almost every sector seeing year-over-year drops. Meanwhile, the weekly average of initial unemployment claims is running above 2023’s level and continuing claims are nearing a post-pandemic high.​ And even the openings that appear active, Pingle argued, may not be tied to real hiring efforts. The hiring rate “consistent with recession” has been a gap “so large that seemingly many of the openings probably are not seeing much effort to be filled,” according to Pingle. “We can also look at the 14 million people not working but who want a job or are searching for one, or the 2 million collecting unemployment benefits. Given that abundance, it would seem that at least some of the openings do not appear anxious to be filled.” Not only are workers losing jobs, but the market for new opportunities is shrinking as well. Seasonal hiring plans for the holidays are running well below pre-pandemic norms. Challenger, Gray & Christmas reports a combined September/October total of just 400,000 announced holiday roles — sharply lower than the 625,000 average for the 2014–19 period and even below recent years. Key retailers like Target aren’t even disclosing numbers, and the National Retail Federation suggests seasonal jobs could be down 40% from a year ago.​ This chill is hitting consumer and business sentiment. The University of Michigan’s consumer confidence reading dropped to 50.3 in November, barely above the all-time low set in 2022. Fewer households report jobs are plentiful, and the share expecting unemployment to rise over the next year has soared to levels not seen since the recession-scarred 1980s. Among small businesses, optimism is “struggling to gain traction” amid inflation fears and continued labor market turmoil.​ Federal Reserve officials are increasingly divided, with some policymakers warning that the risk to jobs now rivals concerns about inflation. While some see an argument for interest rate cuts to buffer the labor market, others worry inflation isn’t yet tamed. One Fed governor admitted she worries because “the labor market can deteriorate very quickly,” calling for caution and flexibility as each new set of economic data is released.​ The investment bank’s conclusion? If layoffs keep pace and hiring continues to slow, the labor market is headed for “more obvious contraction.” And that, they warn, could soon filter down to undermine household confidence, consumer spending — and the entire recovery. “If a bathtub is draining faster and faster while the faucet isn’t changed, eventually the water level is going to start to drop. That is a material risk to the outlook.” © 2025 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice | Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Despite some initial skepticism, could Target’s turnaround be right on target?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/despite-initial-skepticism-could-target-140837575.html
Time Published: 2025-11-10T14:08:37Z
Description: Is Target on target? Our Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute analysis of Fortune 500 CEO successions suggests an internal candidate has strong odds.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Despite some initial skepticism, could Target’s turnaround be right on target?
URL: https://fortune.com/2025/11/10/who-is-new-target-ceo-michael-fiddelke-succession-turnaround/
Time Published: 2025-11-10T14:08:37Z
Full Content:
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is the Lester Crown Professor in Management Practice and Senior Associate Dean at Yale School of Management. Steven Tian is the director of research at the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute. The old proverb “new brooms sweep clean” is often misleadingly mentioned to suggest that new hires are more thorough. That drops the cautionary second part of the proverb that should not be ignored: “but an old broom knows the corners.” The wisdom of the full saying rings especially true when considering how the nascent turnaround effort at iconic retail chain Target appears to be coming into focus, despite widespread initial skepticism. While the path forward remains challenging, could Target’s turnaround be right on target despite all the naysayers? That skepticism apparently ran so deep, that merely two months ago, when Target announced that longtime, widely admired CEO Brian Cornell would be retiring and that 20-year company veteran Michael Fiddelke would take the reins, the stock immediately plummeted 8%, with sellside Wall Street analysts commenting that “investors were hopeful for an external hire,” and “this internal appointment does not remedy the problems of entrenched groupthink and inward-looking mindset.” (Target stock is down by more than one-third year-to-date.) Despite Fiddelke’s resume – having originally started at Target over two decades ago as an intern, and working in practically every job at the company across retail, merchandising, operations, finance, and supply chain since – many seemed to have written him off from the start, primarily by virtue of his insider status. But could that have been premature? It’s understandable that investors often have a knee-jerk preference for outsiders to parachute into companies in turbulent times. We acknowledge there is never any one-size-fits-all solution – there are always certain situations where an outsider may be genuinely necessary to shake things up and clear the deck. For example, Cornell himself came to Target from PepsiCo when Target was mired in crisis amidst a costly data breach and plummeting revenues, and he got Target back to growth within a couple of years. But our new, original analysis of recent Fortune 500 CEO successions suggests that surprisingly, internal CEOs have been consistently outperforming external CEOs, with dramatic outperformance in terms of total shareholder return (TSR). We analyzed all CEO transitions taking place in the Fortune 500, and we found that of the 61 CEO transitions which took place over the last year, the 39 CEOs who were elevated from within, have generated an average TSR of 14.81% on an annualized basis, while the 22 CEOs who were selected from the outside have generated an average TSR of -9.01% on an annualized basis. Could that be a one-year fluke? We ran the numbers over a longer-term period, and found that the same trend consistently held true. We found that of the 93 CEO transitions which took place over the last one to three years, the 71 internal CEOs have generated a 10.16% average annualized return, while the 22 external CEOs have generated a 6.35% average annualized return. Likewise, of the 84 CEO transitions in the Fortune 500 which took place over the last three to five years, the 70 internal CEOs have generated a 12.68% average annualized return while the 13 external CEOs have generated a 6.42% average annualized return. Simply put, the data is clear that no matter how you slice and dice it, there has been dramatic stock outperformance by internal CEOs vs. external CEOs when it comes to recent Fortune 500 CEO transitions. The conclusions drawn from our original analysis of recent CEO performance closely parallel the findings of other renowned management and corporate governance scholars. In his 2007 book, “The CEO Within,” Harvard Business School’s Joseph Bower found that externally recruited CEOs often lack the in-depth knowledge of the company’s culture and history needed to succeed. Similarly, Stanford’s David Larcker and Brian Tayan found that the data consistently shows across decades that internal CEOs outperform external CEOs. Many scholars have found the same conclusion holds true over more discrete time periods even beyond the ones we measured, such as during the COVID pandemic. While there is never a one-size-fits-all prescription that works in all cases, the data seems to suggest that the greatest change agent CEOs tend to come from within – internal CEOs tend to have a deep understanding of their company, what makes it tick, and even more importantly, where the bodies are buried, and what needs to change – and with the know-how, cultural savvy, and buy-in needed to make tough decisions on day one. As he retires, Brian Cornell has much to be proud of as one of the most admired and accomplished CEOs in retail. During his decade-plus tenure, he has transformed Target from a beleaguered company beset by crises when he arrived, into a retail powerhouse with over $100 billion of revenue today; successfully transitioned Target into an omnichannel retailer with significant e-commerce capabilities; reinvigorated the company’s lucrative, higher-margin private brand business to the tune of more than $30 billion a year in sales; and expanded the company’s geographic footprint to nearly 2,000 fully owned stores. And while the current stock price doesn’t reflect all these achievements, he has bought back billions in stock while raising the dividend every year during his tenure; all while continuing Target’s commitment to dedicating 5% of its total profits to communities, which it has done without break since 1946. Cornell’s prescient, industry-leading strategy to invest in stores in 2017 to build them into e-commerce fulfillment hubs paid off massively, enabling exponential e-commerce growth at Target, especially early on during the pandemic, with consumers embracing Target’s same-day home delivery and drive by pick-up service. This business, which was virtually built from scratch, now generates $20 billion a year and is still rapidly growing. Derived from Target’s burgeoning e-commerce platform is Target’s digital advertising business, which now generates $2 billion a year for the company and is still rapidly growing as well. At the same time, the complexity of running stores as distribution centers has created gaps in the store experience, and Target needs to provide consumers with a more premium, consistent shopping experience. Fiddelke will need to navigate a challenging road forward for Target, which has seen sales stagnate since peaking three years ago. Target has a higher mix of consumer discretionary products vis a vis competitors such as Walmart and Costco, whose product mix lean more towards consumer staples. This benefits Target when its merchandise is trend setting and differentiated, but can also be a headwind when consumers are stretched or managing budgets tightly. Fiddelke’s emphasis on restoring Target’s style authority may be the biggest factor in driving future growth here. Regardless, there is just no mistaking the magnitude of Target’s current challenges. To succeed, Fiddelke will need to put forward a comprehensive turnaround strategy as 2026 beckons, with the planned CEO transition looming in February 2026. Consumer spending is showing signs of slowing down amidst market share losses to key competitors, and Target will need to do a better job of both providing value to the financially stressed consumer; while also better differentiating its discretionary products to recapture higher spending consumers. Target needs to recapture its reputation for combining style, quality and value in a way other retailers don’t. There are some potential growth enhancers. While Target’s loyalty program, Target Circle, has over 100 million members; investors will be looking to see how Fiddelke can better leverage those memberships. Unlike Walmart or Amazon, Target Circle is free to join, and there is a big opportunity for Target to increase the offerings and value to attract more consumers while further monetizing the platform. Target has been testing different promotions, personalized offers, gamifying rewards, free gifts and working to increase awareness of the benefits, with a focus of driving upper-level paid premium memberships that come with 5% discounts on purchases and unlimited same-day home delivery. These initiatives have the potential to not only accelerate digital growth but also drive overall traffic and sales growth. Similarly, there is a significant opportunity for Target’s third-party marketplace business, Target+, which enables outside vendors to sell products on its website with attractive profit margins to Target, to grow significantly in the years ahead. Fiddelke appears to be meeting these challenges head-on. Virtually all observers agreed that the recent news of Target laying off 8% of its corporate workforce was difficult but necessary in rightsizing Target’s workforce. Analysts at Jefferies noted, “This is an early signal that Fiddelke is willing to make tough calls. The layoffs are essential to restore agility and cost discipline. If paired with initiatives to reignite traffic and improve digital execution, these actions could lay the groundwork for a turnaround”. These initial green shoots of progress have been warmly welcomed, with Target stock up nearly 10% over the last month. Furthermore, Target is continuing exclusive premiers with blockbuster talent like Taylor Swift, who just released her new “Life of Showgirl” album with exclusive related merchandize items available only at Target, continuing a highly profitable enviable relationship since 2008. But that marks only the start, and much more is needed. To sustain momentum, Target will need to communicate an even more sweeping, comprehensive turnaround strategy covering all aspects of Fiddelke’s new strategy in detail, perhaps around a potential investor day next spring. Clearly, there is strong appetite for bold, decisive moves, even if it means ripping off the band-aid right up front and working through some transitory pain. Then, from there, all eyes will be on execution. While our original analysis suggests that internal CEOs tend to have stronger track records of execution, the onus will be on Fiddelke to show that this leadership team of experienced Target veterans can hit the bulls-eye once Target’s target is in sight. The opinions expressed in Fortune.com commentary pieces are solely the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions and beliefs of Fortune. © 2025 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice | Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Former Google, Meta executives raise $100 million for high-capacity AI servers startup
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/11/10/majestic-labs-meta-google-ai-funding.html
Time Published: 2025-11-10T14:00:01Z
Description: The three plan to sell high-memory server technology.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: When the AI Bubble Bursts, the Damage Will Be Severe
URL: https://www.activistpost.com/when-the-ai-bubble-bursts-the-damage-will-be-severe/
Time Published: 2025-11-10T13:00:00Z
Full Content:
The AI bubble is both massive and nearing its end. At least that’s how we read the tea leaves. When it bursts…the damage is going to be profound, financially, economically and even politically. The AI bubble has gotten so massive and so complicated and so perversely organized that even the WSJ is having trouble figuring out how to describe the circular deals and money flows. When this bubble bursts, it will be the most damaging in US history, by far. The amounts involved are truly staggering, measured in the supposed market valuations of the top 5 companies – Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, Nvidia, and Google. Together, they are ‘worth’ more than $19 trillion. Nvidia alone is valued in the stock market at more than $5 trillion. But let’s back up for a moment. What is a bubble? This is my favorite definition: “A bubble exists when asset prices rise beyond what incomes can sustain.” Using this definition, consider AI leader OpenAI, which has a purported $13 billion in yearly revenue, but which is losing billions more on top of that, having made capital spending commitments with other AI companies totaling $1.4 trillion. The value of all the other involved companies has spiked on the news of the commitments, but where is that money going to come from? Nobody has yet said and OpenAI’s CEO, Sam Altman, refuses to answer: Sam Altman appears tired of having to justify how OpenAI will pay for its trillion-dollar-plus spending commitments as a startup bringing in a fraction of that in annual revenue. In a testy moment during a recent podcast interview with investor Brad Gerstner on the “Bg2 Pod,” Altman was asked “the single biggest question” that is “hanging over the market.” “How can a company with $13 billion in revenues make $1.4 trillion of spend commitments?” Gerstner asked the OpenAI CEO. “You’ve heard the criticism, Sam.” OpenAI has invested heavily in infrastructure and compute, striking multi-billion-dollar deals to secure more Nvidia chips and energy to fuel its AI ambitions. The latest came Monday morning, when OpenAI announced a $38 billion partnership with AWS. “If you want to sell your shares, I’ll find you a buyer,” Altman said in response to Gerstner’s question. “Enough.” (Source) It’s extremely weird for a CEO to refuse to answer the most basic of questions about their business model. Unless, of course, that CEO already knew there was no good answers to be given and was being evasive in an attempt to buy some time while they try to sort out a revenue model. In other words, the asset price of his company has risen far beyond what incomes can sustain. The day after recording this podcast with Paul Kiker, Sam Altman tipped his hand further by – I am not making this up – requesting that US taxpayers guarantee the gargantuan loans he needs in order to continue his money-losing project: Sam Altman over at OpenAI wants the US government to provide and guarantee loans for its expansion.Up to a trillion.No, I’m not joking. pic.twitter.com/i4XRjpPPQn On top of that, we’ve also got the CEO of Nvidia now warning that China may ‘win’ the AI race (whatever that means). JUST IN – Nvidia founder Jensen Huang says, "China is going to win the AI race." — Financial Times The pattern is worryingly the same as we saw right before the internet bubble burst in 2000. I see a pattern…Altman and Jenson smell the end of bubble (financing drying up) and are going to ask Daddy for taxpayer money citing national security issues. https://t.co/d8l30BRFSj pic.twitter.com/ASHRJZkcMu And this is the same behavior observed before the infamous South Sea Bubble of the 1700’s blew up. My favorite pitch for South Sea shares? “The company is being formed for carrying on an undertaking of great advantage, but nobody to know what it is.” (Source) That, at least, was direct and honest. I’m getting the same vibes today from Sam Altman. Meanwhile, the actual economy, the one based on real products being made, transported and sold to real people, is shredding at an alarming rate. Freightwaves CEO: "Well, we should be worried. The goods economy, certain portions of the goods economy are collapsing right now. So, year over year trucking volumes, this is really predominance of freight that moves across the United States, is down 17%". "But when you look at… pic.twitter.com/DuCIgJNjWS This is why, when the AI bubble bursts, the damage will be so severe. There’s no solid support beneath it. The real economy is suffering with job layoffs for October the highest since 2003: Layoffs in October were the highest since 2003: pic.twitter.com/QnQ33KFyGZ And that’s with $2+ trillion of government deficit spending, the Fed cutting rates, and financial conditions being extremely easy as M2 grows. How much longer can this all continue? Nobody knows. Which is why having a risk-managed portfolio and a strategic plan are more important than ever. Our endorsed financial advisors at Kiker Wealth Management treat every client as an individual and their process for determining if they can be a good fit for a client begins with an initial get-to-know-you phone call, followed by a financial review and planning session, and then finally a third recommendation session. Every person or couple is unique in their family details, life stage, and resources, which is why Paul and his team spend so much time figuring each client out to ensure there’s a good fit (both ways). In a world of numbers, Paul seeks to ensure he and his team know the people. To arrange an initial phone call, just go to Peak Financial Investing, fill out the simple form, and someone from Paul’s team will reach out within 48 business hours to arrange the meeting. It’s that simple. https://peakfinancialinvesting.com/ FINANCIAL DISCLAIMER. PEAK PROSPERITY, LLC, AND PEAK FINANCIAL INVESTING ARE NOT ENGAGED IN RENDERING LEGAL, TAX, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE OR SERVICES VIA THIS WEBSITE. NEITHER PEAK PROSPERITY, LLC NOR PEAK FINANCIAL INVESTING ARE FINANCIAL PLANNERS, BROKERS, OR TAX ADVISORS. Their websites are intended only to assist you in your financial education. Your personal financial situation is unique, and any information and advice obtained through this website may not be appropriate for your situation. Accordingly, before making any final decisions or implementing any financial strategy, you should consider obtaining additional information and advice from your accountant or other financial advisers who are fully aware of your individual circumstances. Watch the Video Other ways to watch: Rumble Download (Private Use Only) Click Here to Download The Crash Course Protecting Your Wealth from The Great Taking Peak Financial Investing “Fix the Money, Fix the World!” Cucumbers vs. Grapes: Stocks Go Up as the Economy Goes Down
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Why AI-fueled layoffs like Amazon will backfire
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/jobs/hr-policies-trends/why-ai-fueled-layoffs-will-backfire/articleshow/125224157.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-10T12:02:07Z
Full Content:
Companies are simultaneously announcing record AI investments and widespread layoffs, often for the same organizations. While AI is cited as a driver for these cuts, many initiatives show no return on investment. Layoffs, especially large ones, can undermine innovation and employee morale, potentially hindering the very AI adoption they aim to facilitate. Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Top Prime Articles Private Companies Top Commodities Top Definitions Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Worry not. You’re just a step away. It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits. Big Price Drop! Flat 40% Off Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Special Offer Get flat 40% off on ETPrime What’s Included with ETPrime Membership Trump temper on H-1B visas is forcing Indians to do these things to stay put in US What Adani’s US indictment means for India Inc’s overseas fundraising Why veterans like Reliance, L&T are on acquisition spree? Aswath Damodaran has an answer. Will China’s dollar bond sale in Saudi Arabia trump the US in financial world? Huawei launches its own OS to compete with Google and Apple. But can it win beyond China? The problem with lab grown diamonds Why a falling rupee is a better option for the economy A list of top 20 momentum stocks that have delivered massive returns in one year Investment Ideas Grow your wealth with stock ideas & sectoral trends. Stock Reports Plus Buy low & sell high with access to Stock Score, Upside potential & more. BigBull Portfolio Get to know where the market bulls are investing to identify the right stocks. Stock Analyzer Check the score based on the company's fundamentals, solvency, growth, risk & ownership to decide the right stocks. Market Mood Analyze the market sentiments & identify the trend reversal for strategic decisions. Stock Talk Live at 9 AM Daily Ask your stock queries & get assured replies by ET appointed, SEBI registered experts. ePaper - Print View Read the PDF version of ET newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime. ePaper - Digital View Read your daily newspaper in Digital View & get it delivered to your inbox everyday. Wealth Edition Manage your money efficiently with this weekly money management guide. TOI ePaper Read the PDF version of TOI newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime. Deep Explainers Explore the In-depth explanation of complex topics for everyday life decisions. Health+ Stories Get fitter with daily health insights committed to your well-being. Personal Finance+ Stories Manage your wealth better with in-depth insights & updates on finance. New York Times Exclusives Stay globally informed with exclusive story from New York Times. TimesPrime Subscription Access 20+ premium subscriptions like Spotify, Uber One & more. Docubay Subscription Stream new documentaries from all across the world every day. Leadership | Entrepreneurship People | Culture Leadership | Entrepreneurship People | Culture Leadership | Entrepreneurship People | Culture Leadership | Entrepreneurship People | Culture Leadership | Entrepreneurship People | Culture Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: The best PC hardware and software of 2025/2026
URL: https://www.pcworld.com/article/2965913/the-best-pc-hardware-and-software-of-2025-2026.html
Time Published: 2025-11-10T11:30:00Z
Full Content:
When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn't affect our editorial independence. When historians look back at the PC industry in 2025, they’ll probably remember a time of intense turmoil. Between wildly unpredictable tariffs, geopolitical strife, the AI boom, hardware shortages caused by the AI boom (and tariffs), and hundreds of thousands of industry layoffs, it’s been an eventful – and stressful – year for the PC. Nonetheless, great things happened. We’ve seen the launch of entire new graphics card generations from Nvidia and AMD. The laptops of today are the laptops of tomorrow we’ve always dreamed of. Handheld gaming is exploding in popularity, leaving Microsoft scrambling to make Windows a viable alternative to Valve’s SteamOS on those devices. Security is evolving daily to protect a new breed of AI-powered attacks. Today is a day to celebrate the best of times. This is the Best PC Hardware and Software of 2025, as chosen by PCWorld’s editors. The Lenovo Yoga 9i 2-in-1 (Aura Edition) is the most impressive Windows laptop we tested this year, and I’ll tell you exactly why. It combines a stunning 14-inch 2880×1800 OLED display with HDR and a 120Hz refresh rate, beastly specs (including an Intel Core Ultra 7 258V CPU, 32GB of RAM, 1TB SSD, and Intel Arc 140V graphics), and a battery that can last up to 23 hours. It’s speedy enough to handle work tasks and binge-watching your favorite show on Netflix and, at under three pounds, it won’t break your back. The 2-in-1 design is nice too, especially if you move around a lot. You can flip it into tablet mode or set it up like a little tent. This versatility is cool when you’re working with limited space like in an airplane seat, for example. The keyboard and trackpad also feel great, and the Yoga Pen sticks right to the top so it’s always handy when you’re ready to create your next masterpiece… or just doodle for fun! -Ashley Biancuzzo Nvidia bet the fate of the GeForce RTX 50-series on DLSS 4’s incredible multi-frame gen feature. As magical as the feature can be, it left most of the RTX 50 lineup feeling flat at best, or as uninspiring sidegrades at best. Not the GeForce RTX 5070 Ti. Unlike most of the 50-series lineup, the 5070 Ti includes a sizeable performance uplift, while costing less – versus the 4070 Ti, you get 25 percent faster performance for $50 less. Better yet, the 5070 Ti’s prowess makes it the perfect vehicle for DLSS 4’s multi-frame gen – the card delivers killer 1440p and solid 4K performance as-is, but flipping on MFG takes visual smoothness and frame pacing to utterly sublime levels. You’re going to want to pair this beast with a 240Hz monitor if you can manage it. In a weak and price-engorged generation for graphics cards, only the RTX 5070 Ti and AMD’s Radeon RX 9070 series stand out as particularly appealing. The amazing power of DLSS 4 earns Nvidia this well-deserved nod. If you’re dismissing MFG as “fake frames,” you’re missing out. –Brad Chacos The battery life on the HP OmniBook 5 14 is utter insanity. We’re talking over 25 hours in our testing–you can thank the super-efficient Snapdragon X Plus processor for that one. The 14-inch 1920×1200 OLED touchscreen also looks great because of its wide color gamut and high contrast ratio. While it’ll breeze through most day-to-day tasks, it isn’t a gaming rig or a 3D workstation, so you may want to mind how you use it. That said, the main draw here is the ridiculous battery life and an OLED display that truly pops… all for under $900! This is one stunner of a laptop. -Ashley Biancuzzo This year, the monitor that stood out as the best overall – i.e., the monitor most likely to satisfy the versatile needs of the majority of users – was the Dell 32 Plus 4K QD-OLED. Our high regard began with its big, sharp, colorful 4K QD-OLED panel. It grew with the 120Hz refresh rate and support for Adaptive Sync, making it a suitable option for work as well as entertainment, even gaming. With two video inputs (HDMI 2.1 and USB-C with DisplayPort 1.4 support), 90 watts of Power Delivery for connecting to either Windows or Mac laptops, and two USB-C downstream ports supporting 15 watts of USB Power Delivery and 5Gbps of data, it’s up for productivity. The monitor goes on to sweeten the pot with five speakers – wait, what? — for 25 total watts and support for spatial audio. Finally, it seals the deal with a price that undercuts the competition — $850 MSRP, but currently hovering around $700 on Amazon. – Katherine Stevenson Staying sane while dealing with online security is much easier with a password manager. A good password manager, that is—one that quickly creates and fills in strong passwords, stores passkeys, immediately alerts you to compromised or weak passwords, and lets you securely share credentials with others. Dashlane gets the highest possible marks from us not just for its dependability, but its regular updates, too. In particular, the service now supports full passwordless login, which lets you sign in to your Dashlane account without a password. It’s also one of the first to implement secure import/export of passkeys and passwords (aka CXP). This puts it on the leading edge of credential security—other password managers are still working on their rollout. Combined with standard features like passkey support and dark web monitoring, plus surprising extras like VPN access and real-time phishing protection, Dashlane provides a lot of broad protection for your logins. Other password managers may be cheaper, but not as complete. -Alaina Yee You might expect our pick for best SSD to use the latest-gen PCIe 5.0 interface, which can be 100 percent faster than the previous generation. But while the prospect of such blazing-fast transfer speeds is certainly tantalizing, for most everyday computing activities, including gaming, PCIe 4.0 performs comparably to PCIe 5.0 — and for a lot less money! This is why our pick for best SSD is the WD Black SN7100 SSD, a PCIe 4.0 drive whose overall benchmark performance bested those of its peers, even if only by small margins. The upshot is that this drive is fast, and it features a reassuring five-year warranty. Better still, at $74 for 1TB, it’s half the cost of the best PCIe 5.0 drive. Need we say more? – Katherine Stevenson Adam Patrick Murray / Foundry It’s been a slow year for CPUs. Perhaps in reaction to 2024’s performance issues and regressions, both Intel and AMD have been quiet on the desktop front. Instead, focus has been on laptop CPUs. The lone bright spot for desktop enthusiasts? AMD’s Ryzen 9 9950X3D. We saw it coming. Last year, the Ryzen 7 9800X3D delivered stupendous performance in both gaming and content creation. A flagship version would be even beastlier—and the 9950X3D proved that assumption right. Against the Intel Core 9 285K, the 9950X3D showed gaming performance lifts ranging from 25 to 48 percent (!) and a content creation performance boost of about 10 percent on average. And that’s at stock settings. Turn on PBO and you get another bump in performance. The only disappointing thing about the Ryzen 9 9950X3D is that it takes the title with no real competition. But that doesn’t make it a bad chip. On its own merits—and no matter what kind of PC user you are—it’s a win. -Alaina Yee I expected 2025 to be a breakout year for Thunderbolt 5 docking stations, and I wasn’t disappointed. Many docks I received, however, were priced at the high end of the spectrum. Plugable’s TBT-UDT3 was a notable exception, a moderately-priced laptop docking station I could recommend to those who needed a current-generation Thunderbolt 4 dock or who were looking to invest in next-gen Thunderbolt 5 hardware. Why did I weigh price so heavily? Two reasons: first, the omnipresent tariff concerns, and second, because Intel has reserved (again!) Thunderbolt 5 as a discrete add-on component, making it the domain of high-end, premium laptops, and not the mainstream. Eventually, that will change. But Plugable gives you tomorrow’s hardware at today’s prices. Plugable’s docking station offers the choice of three displays (or two plus an external SSD), Thunderbolt Share, and a general overall stability that unfortunately isn’t that commonplace. I think it’s the best overall docking station I tested, even though others had standout features that I ranked highly. –Mark Hachman Data breaches keep piling up. So too attacks via phishing links and malware. AI may be helping people with dinner recipes and email writing, but it has also sped up the discovery of vulnerabilities—and exploits of them. Even with good online browsing habits, the most careful person can still fall prey to common tricks. You need a safety net. That’s why we love Norton 360 Deluxe. You could stitch together your own equivalent suite yourself, but this antivirus app pulls together and simplifies a very broad range of features for users. In addition to blocking malware and shady websites, Norton 360 Deluxe also offers dark web monitoring, a VPN, parental controls, a password manager, and 50GB of cloud storage for automated backups of critical documents. The subscription even includes general PC utilities like file cleanup, too. This highly comprehensive level of defense is rare—especially given how little Norton charges. You’ll be hard-pressed to find rivals that cost as little or provide as many features. -Alaina Yee Willis Lai / IDG If you want a solid, affordable handheld gaming PC…just get Valve’s Steam Deck. It’s nearly four years old now, but with a starting price of $400 and a “sweet spot” OLED upgrade at $550, it’s still the best option out there for most gamers (especially if you pair the Steam Deck with a GeForce Now subscription, an utterly transformative duo). SteamOS, smoother and better integrated than Windows 11, is a big part of that. If you want a little more gaming power or a bigger screen, the Legion Go S comes with a SteamOS option that doesn’t require any tweaking…but maybe wait for a sale. –Michael Crider For those who want a lot more oomph and options, and don’t mind paying for it, the Lenovo Legion Go 2 is our pick. This beast of a handheld includes the larger screen and Switch-style breakaway controllers of the original design, plus an OLED upgrade and screaming Ryzen Z2 Extreme processor. It runs Windows 11, but Bazzite is a Steam-powered option (and probably official SteamOS, later). Just be prepared to pay for it: this thing starts at $1350 USD. –Michael Crider Not only did the Alienware 16X Aurora impress us with its raw performance, but its high refresh rate display also makes everything look positively delicious. This laptop is equipped to keep up with the latest titles thanks to its Intel Core Ultra 9 275HX CPU and RTX 5070 GPU. You can jump straight into the latest triple-A games without problem, with all the eye candy cranked, and they’ll play amazing. The 16-inch 2560×1600 IPS screen is crisp and big, and the 240Hz refresh rate makes every frame feel as smooth as silk. -Ashley Biancuzzo You might be surprised how much of your personal data is being collected and sold online. Data brokers and people search sites are hoovering up your data at an alarming rate and it’s nearly impossible to keep a lid on it yourself. So the best solution is to let a personal data removal service handle the arduous task of removing this data for you. And none are doing it better than Incogni. The service is dead simple to use, and the set-it-and-forget-it automation begins to work in a flash. After only the first day of using it, Incogni had already sent out hundreds of removal requests on my behalf, saving me months’ worth of effort. Plus, the service regularly follows up with every site to ensure my data doesn’t ever reappear. The addition of Custom removals means there is practically no site that Incogni won’t attempt to wipe your data from either. It can be a bit expensive, but if you’re concerned about your personal data being shared online, the piece of mind Incogni offers is unparalleled. –Sam Singleton For a gaming monitor to even warrant consideration, it needs to be fast and it needs to have a damn good picture. Those are just table stakes, which the MSI MPG 272URX delivers handily. Not content with the standard 1440p resolution, the 272URX goes full 4K for maximum clarity, and its 240Hz refresh rate renders even fast-paced games with buttery smoothness. Adaptive sync support is a given. But lest you think the 272URX’s talents begin and end with gaming, consider this: generous connectivity, including four video inputs, Power Delivery, and a KVM switch; a full complement of image-quality adjustments via a user-friendly on-screen menu; and HDR support. In sum, it’s an all-around winner. – Katherine Stevenson When it comes to Chromebooks, the Asus Chromebook Plus CX34 is damned near flawless. It’s got an Intel i5 processor and 8GB of RAM, so it’s zippy when running everyday tasks, and the 14-inch 1080p touchscreen display looks sharp whether you’re cranking on daily workflows or zoning out to YouTube. It’ll also last around 13 hours on a single charge. You’ll get through a full workday, no problem – and with how great the keyboard feels, you won’t have any complaints while doing so. -Ashley Biancuzzo I am so glad I picked eMeet’s Piko+ 4K for our best webcam of 2025: the only flaw that I could find with this cute little 4K webcam is that it lacked a traditional webcam mount. Imagine my surprise when I double-checked my review and our shopping listings, only to discover that eMeet now ships a “traditional” version of this webcam, too! I absolutely loved the clarity that this dual-lens 4K webcam offered, especially in low light. This webcam’s visual capabilities were simply excellent (the mic is merely average, but that’s okay) and the $90 price splits the difference between our $40 budget webcams and the $150-$250 you’d pay for an ultrapremium offering. I wasn’t expecting much from this webcam, but I was blown away by what it offers. –Mark Hachman It’s never easy to select the best VPN overall. There are so many factors to consider such as privacy, ease of use, server network size, unblocking capabilities, and speed. The reasons people have for using a VPN varies widely and that all needs to be taken into account. Will the VPN be used to get around country blocks for streaming, staying anonymous online, torrenting, or something else—the list goes on and on. Many VPNs excel at a few of these functions, but rarely manage to shine across the board. That is, except NordVPN. It’s one of the only services that consistently ranks at the top, or close to it, of each category. That’s why it’s my pick for this year’s best VPN. Not only does it continue to be the fastest VPN I’ve ever tested, but it has a huge server network, a vast array of security extras, and its no-logs policy is backed by plenty of independent audits. It also never fails to unblock streaming services and fully supports P2P. No other current service exemplifies all of the elements of a great VPN like NordVPN, full stop. –Sam Singleton Each time I review Surfshark I’m amazed at the new and interesting features it adds to the service while maintaining such an inexpensive subscription price. At this point, I find myself asking, what doesn’t Surfshark have? Not only do you get the VPN with an outstanding server network and lightning-fast speeds, but you also have access to a whole slew of top-notch privacy and security extras such as multi-hop, antivirus protection, rotating IP, ad- and tracker-blocking, and more. The best part is that all of these great features and tools can be had for less than the price of a cup of coffee every month with Surfshark’s long-term plans. Even shady off-brand VPNs that market themselves as “cheap” barely offer subscriptions for this price—and none of them have the feature set or verified privacy record of Surfshark. It’s by far the best value VPN for those on a budget—and one of the best VPNs overall. –Sam Singleton For truly portable storage that can be carried with ease and used without the need for any additional cables or adapters, look no further than the Teamgroup X2 Max USB stick. This USB 3.2 Gen2 drive uses NVMe internals to deliver sustained transfers of approximately 1.1GBps. Sure, you can find portable drives that are even faster than that – USB 3.2×2 or USB4, for example. But they won’t feature this lil’ one’s unique flexibility in the form of dual connectors. With both USB-A and USB-C connectors, one on each end, you are assured of being able to plug into any device as-is. Now that’s convenience! – Katherine Stevenson This year, things got interesting in the backup software space. Our long-time favorite backup program was knocked from its perch by EaseUS Todo Backup 2025, which made impressive strides to achieve what our reviewer dubbed “the most efficient workflow I’ve seen.” He also described the interface as “a joy.” Wow. These are the kind of superlatives that make the tedious chore of backing up data much more welcoming. Of course, EaseUS Todo Backup 2025 provides all the necessary functionality you need for complete confidence: whole drive and partition imaging, file and folder backup, sync, disaster recovery including a WinPE recover disk, and more. We also love that EaseUS bucks the trend by offering a perpetual licence ($59.99, or $79.99 for lifetime upgrades) in addition to a yearly subscription ($39.99). Although, to take advantage of EaseUS’s optional cloud storage at a respectable $20 per year for 1TB, you will need to opt for the subscription tier. – Katherine Stevenson It makes a lot of sense to use an online backup service. In the context of the trusty 3-2-1 rule for backups, an online backup suffices as one of the two distinct types of media that’s suggested, as well as checks the box that a backup be kept in a remote location. What’s really great about iDrive, our pick for best online backup service, is that it offers even more than that, such as a client for local backups and basic imaging and disaster recovery, which is pretty rare among online services. The Personal tier, which starts at $69.65 per year, has support for multiple devices and includes 5TB of online storage. With its comprehensive feature set and user-friendliness, iDrive is tough to beat. – Katherine Stevenson Most USB-C hubs are dongles: you get a long rectangular slab of plastic or aluminum about the length of a utility knife, with a number of ports attached. OWC’s Travel Dock looks a bit more like a docking station without the size of a docking station. It’s only 3.2 inches on a side, and ports sprout from all three sides of this 5-in-1 hub: USB-A, Ethernet, USB-C power input, HDMI, and an SD card reader. Even the cord tucks away. For about $35 ($30 as I write this) you get the most important four ports you’ll need, all in a compact little square that still fits inside a pouch, purse, or pack. Or…perhaps a stocking? –Mark Hachman Brad Chacos spends his days digging through desktop PCs and tweeting too much. He specializes in graphics cards and gaming, but covers everything from security to Windows tips and all manner of PC hardware. Business Laptop Mobile PC Hardware Storage Deals TechHive Digital Magazine - Subscribe Digital Magazine - Info Gift Subscription Newsletters
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Shocking jobs data resets recession bets
URL: https://www.thestreet.com/employment/shocking-jobs-data-resets-recession-bets
Time Published: 2025-11-09T18:47:00Z
Description: For the second straight month, the U.S. Labor Department will not publish its economic report due to the government shutdown, which is now the longest on...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ‘I’m in a financial mess’: My income was cut in half. Do I sell my $600K home and kiss my 2.9% mortgage rate goodbye?
URL: https://www.marketwatch.com/story/im-in-a-financial-mess-my-income-was-cut-in-half-do-i-sell-my-600k-home-and-kiss-my-2-9-mortgage-rate-goodbye-5d356273
Time Published: 2025-11-09T16:23:00Z
Description: “We can move 10 miles south, where property is much cheaper.”
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Southern California’s Main Street economy rattled by inflation, ICE raids and tariffs
URL: https://www.ocregister.com/2025/11/09/southern-californias-main-street-economy-rattled-by-inflation-ice-raids-and-tariffs/
Time Published: 2025-11-09T16:02:00Z
Full Content:
Evidence of economic pain is rippling across Southern California, hitting businesses big and small. Until last month, Simon Yoon ran a popular sushi restaurant tucked away in a Diamond Bar strip center where commuters often stopped to pick up a bite to eat while waiting out the rush hour congestion at the nearby 57 and 60 freeway interchange. Yoon shuttered his restaurant, Fusion 2 Any 1, because he could no longer make ends meet due to a wave of policy decisions to remake the economy by President Donald Trump, who’s just under a year in office now. Yoon said he could no longer afford the $14,000 monthly rent and rising expenses caused by tariffs that tripled the price of everything from a box of chopsticks and a bag of garlic to plastic knives, forks and avocados. “I couldn’t raise my prices to the consumers,” said Yoon, who didn’t want to push away his regulars. “I cut lots of labor.” Also see: Economy shows ‘resilience’ despite ‘thorny issues,’ CSUF economists say He also blamed the drop-off in customers on raids and tactics used in recent weeks by federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in Diamond Bar, which created a climate of fear in the community. “It’s hurting a lot of business,” Yoon said. “Catching criminals is great, but not everyone is a criminal. There are a lot of hard-working people that are having their families broken up. That’s sad to see.” The 48-year-old Yoon voted for Trump a year ago but now regrets it. “I’m hoping for the best, but nobody comes out to eat,” he said. Yoon isn’t the only business owner barely making ends meet these days. Businesses across Southern California have shed thousands of workers amid a slowing economy, many citing similar reasons to Yoon’s — stretching from Anaheim to Ontario and Pasadena. On Thursday, global outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas reported that last month was the worst October for layoff announcements since 2003. California saw 158,734 people laid off from Jan. 1-Oct. 31, up 16% over last year’s 136,661 — the second-largest employment cuts nationwide, according to the outplacement firm. Cuts in federal funding — fueled by the longest-running federal government shutdown, now at 40 days — also are having their effects. Tariff wars with foreign nations over imports have rattled local businesses, as some are struggling with inflation and labor issues. Cal State University Fullerton economists Anil Puri and Mira Farka and other economists with UCLA Anderson and Beacon Economics recently delivered cautionary forecasts on the state of the economy. Underscoring the concerns, the CSUF economists said that inflation is expected to likely continue to “edge higher into the first quarter of next year,” though they do not expect it to get out of hand, anticipating a peak of around 3.5%.” They added that inflation has “yet to crest,” and “the labor market has yet to find its floor — though neither is expected to inflict as much pain as once feared.” The current annual inflation rate for the U.S. was 3% for the year period ending in September. New inflation statistics published by the regional Consumer Price Indexes for September show an 3.5% inflation rate for Los Angeles and Orange counties. That’s the biggest cost-of-living bump in 16 months. The economists said they wouldn’t be surprised if the remainder of the year is marked by “a few more bumps, with payrolls weakening further as firms await clarity on trade deals, the government shutdown and overall consumer demand.” Layoffs in the region have picked up from a year ago, according to the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics, the official federal agency that keeps track of jobs data. The BLS paused updates during the government’s shutdown that began Oct. 1. In August, the unemployment rate in Orange County stood at 4.6%, down from a revised 4.8% in July 2025, but above the year-ago estimate of 4.5%. Similar unemployment trends were reported in Los Angeles County (6.3% in August), Riverside County (6.1%) and San Bernardino County (6.1%). Puri and Farka said people should brace for sticker shock when the government reopens, revising figures on job losses and “alarming” hiring conditions. In the past month, Anaheim theme park Disneyland laid off 100 salaried employees as Orange County’s largest employer recalibrates its business ahead of the busy Christmas holiday season. Amazon also is cutting 760 jobs in Southern California — 333 in Irvine — beginning in January as part of a shakeup driven by artificial intelligence, and Planned Parenthood of Orange and San Bernardino Counties laid off 81 people as it shutters Melody Health, its primary care practice, due to federal budget cuts. Other layoffs in October: Some companies even feel the time is ripe to sell. In August, Las Vegas-based Silver State HVAC, Refrigeration & Plumbing acquired The Whitman Co. in Anaheim. “We wanted to avoid a fire sale,” said Linda Whitman, manager of the business and married to owner Fred Whitman, who pointed to the rising cost of doing business in California and plans to retire while the going was good. She said profit margins were shrinking due to the rising prices of commercial-grade heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems since the pandemic when supplies tightened, plus challenges emerging in the past year with tariffs. “We sold primarily for retirement purposes, but it also was driven by what you’ve heard a million times. It’s getting impossible to run a business in California,” Whitman said. “It’s hard to sustain that when costs for workers’ compensation and liability insurance are going up 25% year-over-year, in addition to labor costs and everything else. “One of our big customers is a chain restaurant, and they have been struggling, and that of course affects us,” said Whitman, whose company has avoided layoffs by cutting back hours during certain times of the year. “If we weren’t going to be retiring, it would have been for all the other reasons that we might sell. Our sales have been increasing, but our profitability has not.” In Ontario, local shopkeepers are also worried about the economy. In May 2024, Javier Barajas and his wife, Tania Mangas, took over the Tortas Ahogadas Chapala restaurant in downtown Ontario along G Street. It’s located in a strip center across the street from the popular El Pescador Mexican restaurant along Euclid Avenue — which was packed on Tuesday with a lunchtime crowd of city probation officers and office workers. “People are scared,” said Barajas of the ICE raids. Also see: Inland Empire ICE detainees include gardeners, students, fathers Recent ICE operations in Ontario have dampened dining out and shopping. Business owners interviewed cited high-profile incidents like a landscaper being detained inside a surgical center in July, and a shooting during a vehicle stop in October. Other incidents include the taking into custody of at least three people at a Stater Bros. Markets along Holt Boulevard and arrests of gardeners. Tariffs have not treated Barajas very well, as the price for meats added to Mexican dishes have doubled. On Tuesday, there were a handful of customers eating at the restaurant — which he says was busier before the raids began in the community this past summer. For instance, he said, a chuck roll — a large boneless cut of beef from the shoulder of the cow — shot to $7.50 from $3.80 a pound last year, while a pound of ranchera meat — a higher premium type of beef cut, most commonly used in Mexican dishes like carne asada — jumped to $10.50 from $7 a pound. He says beef prices are up because tariffs have led to higher overhead costs for feed, fuel and labor that have contributed to higher prices consumers see at the grocery store and in their bills at restaurants — like at his. “It’s super hard to make money. I spend all of my money on the restaurant,” said Barajas, who has posted a “help wanted” sign on his restaurant’s front door to fill a cook opening. At the JROD Insurance Agency just south of El Pescador, owner Jesse Rodriguez said that his business is barely getting by. “We used to get walk-in business every time the Route 66 car show was held in Ontario. I didn’t get one customer this time,” said Rodriguez of the 12th annual Route 66 Cruisin’ Reunion that roared into downtown Ontario on Sept. 19. “There’s a slowdown everywhere here in town.” Andres Torres, co-owner of Mission Furniture along Euclid, said that he saw furniture sales climb in the early days of the pandemic when everyone was locked down in their homes and shopping online. Sales have since tapered off, and profits have narrowed in line with a slowing economy he saw before Trump’s election. But another slowdown has emerged with Trump administration-imposed tariffs on Vietnam and China, causing furniture prices to edge up 5-10%, Torres said. “It’s tough, but I’m looking to the future to get ahead of the curve,” said Torres of development projects for housing and more potential shoppers coming in Ontario’s downtown area. “Our intention is to survive this, but the ICE raids don’t help.” Diamond Bar’s Yoon might be temporarily down, but he’s come up with a survival plan for his business. He recently took an offer from a business colleague to open his restaurant in a section of the Gangnam Korean BBQ along Golden Springs Drive, across the street from the Diamond Bar Golf Course. If Yoon can turn his sushi-take out spot profitable, he may end up owning the new restaurant within Gangnam, and begin paying rent to its owner. For now, however, he’s content with managing the bar and restaurant in half the space of his old one a mile away. “I don’t want to leave at the bottom because I did so much for the community,” he said. “I want to go on for a few more years.”
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Weekly Market Brief: Musk's trillion-dollar ambition, Expedia, GTA VI, and government shutdown
URL: https://www.thestreet.com/investing/stocks/weekly-market-brief-musks-trillion-dollar-ambition-expedia-gta-vi-and-government-shutdown
Time Published: 2025-11-09T14:33:00Z
Description: The week was marked by significant market fluctuations, debate over data centers, and excessive valuation of tech stocks, which impacted the weekly...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 'Hiring has dramatically slowed': What private data says about America's job engine
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hiring-has-dramatically-slowed-what-private-data-says-about-americas-job-engine-143042228.html
Time Published: 2025-11-09T14:30:42Z
Description: With official data releases frozen by the government shutdown, private reports reveal a labor market that is still losing steam.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: US layoffs hit highest level in two decades: A company-wise breakdown of massive job cuts by AI and cost-cutting
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/us-layoffs-hit-highest-level-in-two-decades-a-company-wise-breakdown-of-massive-job-cuts-by-ai-and-cost-cutting/articleshow/125199673.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-09T09:37:11Z
Full Content:
America saw a massive job cut wave in October 2025. Over 153,000 jobs were lost, the highest in twenty years. Technology and warehousing sectors led the decline. Companies are cutting costs and adopting AI. Major firms like Amazon, UPS, and Intel announced significant layoffs. This reflects deep shifts in the workforce amid technological change and economic uncertainty. US layoffs hit highest level in two decades (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Porsche recalls over 3,000 vehicles in Canada across several models over safety issues which can lead to crash; check list of affected models and what you can do if yours is on the list Who was Dr. Agron Alija? Physician who died in Canada in a head on crash; how did he die; all you need to know US shutdown grows flight chaos, 2,500+ cancelled ‘Must Stay Vigilant’: Lt Gen RP Kalita on Bangladesh extremism, China border build-up US VP JD Vance speaks at Marine Corps' 250th Anniversary celebration 'No one is Ahindu in Bharat': Mohan Bhagwat at 100 years of RSS lecture ‘Public health emergency’: Dr. Naresh Trehan warns on Delhi-NCR air crisis NALSA@30: PM stresses ‘justice in people’s language' at Supreme Court event Is Tej Pratap-Ravi Kishan’s second ‘Coincidental’ meeting a clue? Trump backs Indian-origin Vivek Ramaswamy for Ohio Governor 2026 Priyanka vs Rajnath on ‘₹10000 bribe’, ‘Musalman Matlab ..’ Politics over SIR in Bengal: BJP alleges infiltration, CPI(M) reacts US shutdown grows flight chaos, 2,500+ cancelled ‘Must Stay Vigilant’: Lt Gen RP Kalita on Bangladesh extremism, China border build-up US VP JD Vance speaks at Marine Corps' 250th Anniversary celebration 'No one is Ahindu in Bharat': Mohan Bhagwat at 100 years of RSS lecture ‘Public health emergency’: Dr. Naresh Trehan warns on Delhi-NCR air crisis NALSA@30: PM stresses ‘justice in people’s language' at Supreme Court event Is Tej Pratap-Ravi Kishan’s second ‘Coincidental’ meeting a clue? Trump backs Indian-origin Vivek Ramaswamy for Ohio Governor 2026 Priyanka vs Rajnath on ‘₹10000 bribe’, ‘Musalman Matlab ..’ Politics over SIR in Bengal: BJP alleges infiltration, CPI(M) reacts Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Definitions Top Slideshow Top Story Listing Private Companies Top Prime Articles Most Searched IFSC Codes Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: MPPSC State Service Examination result for 2023 session declared: Check list of top 10 performers here
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/education/news/mppsc-state-service-examination-result-for-2023-session-declared-check-list-of-top-10-performers-here/articleshow/125198966.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-09T08:20:25Z
Description: The Madhya Pradesh Public Service Commission (MPPSC) has declared the 2023 State Services Examination final results, concluding a multi-stage recruitment process for 229 vacancies. Ankit secured the first rank, followed by Neelam Gadge and Ankit Singhai. The …
--------------------------------------------------

Title: This feels like a betrayal: How an Amazon recruiter’s layoff story echoes the pain of millions in tech
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/education/careers/news/this-feels-like-a-betrayal-how-an-amazon-recruiters-layoff-story-echoes-the-pain-of-millions-in-tech/articleshow/125196265.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-09T02:40:01Z
Description: Global tech giants are restructuring their workforces, impacting thousands of white-collar jobs. Companies like Amazon, Google, and Meta are prioritizing AI and automation, leading to layoffs in roles once considered secure. This shift emphasizes efficiency o…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Amazon's AI comeback: Inside the cloud king’s race to close the Big Tech gap
URL: https://www.livemint.com/companies/amazon-ai-aws-cloud-amazon-vs-microsoft-vs-google-vs-meta-amazon-openai-deal-11762519447694.html
Time Published: 2025-11-09T01:30:11Z
Full Content:
This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you. Subscribe to enjoy similar stories. For years, markets saw Amazon and Apple as laggards in the artificial intelligence race dominated by Microsoft, Google, and Meta. Though Amazon had a huge cloud infrastructure through Amazon Web Services (AWS), investors weren’t excited about the company. However, the narrative shifted when the company posted strong September quarter earnings. A deal with OpenAI and a ramp-up in its capital expenditure signalled that Amazon was back in the AI race. AI is just one of Amazon’s many concerns. How it manages its mammoth retail operations amid regulatory pressures matters too. Market catch-upIn the past few years, post-covid and during the AI boom, Amazon was an outlier among the Big Five tech companies, but for the wrong reasons. In the past five years, Amazon shares gained 51%, while its peers doubled or tripled their market value. As Nvidia boomed on the demand for graphics processing units (GPUs) and Microsoft captured headlines with its OpenAI tie-up, investors were concerned that AWS, a cloud leader and Amazon's key division, was struggling to scale. Amazon was spending heavily on AI infrastructure but was losing share to Microsoft and Google. In the second quarter of 2025, AWS’s profit margins fell sharply. The picture changed after Amazon's third-quarter earnings on 30 October 2025. Results exceeded expectations, and shares jumped 13% in after-hours trading. "There was definitely concern about AWS losing market share to Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud," Argent Capital's Jed Ellerbroek told Reuters. “But now AWS is aboard the train as well." In the past five days, Amazon was the only Big Five stock to post gains, while the others declined. AWS revivalIn the September quarter, AWS reported revenues of $33 billion, up 20.2% from $27.5 billion in Q3 2024. It outpaced the segment's 19% growth in Q3 2024 and exceeded Wall Street's 18.1% forecast. The results lifted AWS’s annualized run rate to $132 billion. During the earnings call, CEO Andy Jassy highlighted that the division was "growing at a pace we haven’t seen since 2022," attributing this to "strong demand in AI and machine learning." It addressed investors’ concerns that AWS—which holds about 31% of global cloud infrastructure, according to recent Synergy Research data—might be struggling to manage scale. Also Read | Nvidia's $100 billion deal with OpenAI: An AI monopoly in the making? It could also leverage other changes in the market, such as the friction between Microsoft and its long-standing partner OpenAI. Earlier this week, Amazon signed a $38 billion cloud agreement with OpenAI. The deal could increase its $200 billion backlog by about 20% in the fourth quarter, according to BMO Capital Markets. It also gave AWS a clearer path to recover market share lost to Microsoft and Alphabet. Capital pushTo sustain growth, Amazon has to sustain capital spending. In Q3 2025, its capex hit $35.1 billion, or 19.5% of revenue, up from 14.8% in Q4 2024. This ratio has climbed steadily: 16.1% in Q1 2025 and 19.2% in Q2. It raised full-year capital expenditure guidance to about $125 billion, with most of the funds going to AWS data centres that support AI workloads. Spending is expected to rise further in 2026. That level of investment places Amazon among the largest spenders in the technology sector. However, higher investments in AI infrastructure add to financial strain. Throughout its history, Amazon has pursued growth through efficiency, reflected in its founder’s philosophy: Your margin is my opportunity. A substantial share of its budget is directed toward in-house technologies like Trainium chips, reducing reliance on third-party GPUs. Amazon says its own chips provide 30–40% better price-performance than comparable GPUs. Customers like Anthropic are deploying hundreds of thousands of Trainium2 chips for models like Claude. Adoption is growing, but it still trails Nvidia. Also Read | Artificial intelligence’s next home: your eyes Labour rebalanceIn the recent quarter, Amazon reported a $1.8 billion pre-tax charge for severance related to planned job cuts, reflecting one of its largest corporate restructurings in years. The layoffs, affecting about 14,000 employees, were announced shortly before the earnings release. During the earnings call, Jassy said the cuts were not AI-driven. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before, and you end up with a lot more layers," he said. “Sometimes, without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people doing the actual work. And it can slow you down." While Jassy has emphasized culture, the broader context is a shift toward automation across Amazon’s operations. The company aims to automate 75% of its fulfillment network and has deployed more than one million robots globally. These investments suggest a gradual substitution of capital for labour. Amazon’s workforce totalled 1.56 million in 2024, roughly unchanged from two years earlier despite higher sales and output, but down from 1.6 million in the covid-hit 2021. Also Read | AWS disruption: The world needs a more reliable internet Store strategyCorrecting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data In the past few years, post-covid and during the AI boom, Amazon was an outlier among the Big Five tech companies, but for the wrong reasons. In the past five years, Amazon shares gained 51%, while its peers doubled or tripled their market value. As Nvidia boomed on the demand for graphics processing units (GPUs) and Microsoft captured headlines with its OpenAI tie-up, investors were concerned that AWS, a cloud leader and Amazon's key division, was struggling to scale. Amazon was spending heavily on AI infrastructure but was losing share to Microsoft and Google. In the second quarter of 2025, AWS’s profit margins fell sharply. The picture changed after Amazon's third-quarter earnings on 30 October 2025. Results exceeded expectations, and shares jumped 13% in after-hours trading. "There was definitely concern about AWS losing market share to Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud," Argent Capital's Jed Ellerbroek told Reuters. “But now AWS is aboard the train as well." In the past five days, Amazon was the only Big Five stock to post gains, while the others declined. AWS revivalIn the September quarter, AWS reported revenues of $33 billion, up 20.2% from $27.5 billion in Q3 2024. It outpaced the segment's 19% growth in Q3 2024 and exceeded Wall Street's 18.1% forecast. The results lifted AWS’s annualized run rate to $132 billion. During the earnings call, CEO Andy Jassy highlighted that the division was "growing at a pace we haven’t seen since 2022," attributing this to "strong demand in AI and machine learning." It addressed investors’ concerns that AWS—which holds about 31% of global cloud infrastructure, according to recent Synergy Research data—might be struggling to manage scale. Also Read | Nvidia's $100 billion deal with OpenAI: An AI monopoly in the making? It could also leverage other changes in the market, such as the friction between Microsoft and its long-standing partner OpenAI. Earlier this week, Amazon signed a $38 billion cloud agreement with OpenAI. The deal could increase its $200 billion backlog by about 20% in the fourth quarter, according to BMO Capital Markets. It also gave AWS a clearer path to recover market share lost to Microsoft and Alphabet. Capital pushTo sustain growth, Amazon has to sustain capital spending. In Q3 2025, its capex hit $35.1 billion, or 19.5% of revenue, up from 14.8% in Q4 2024. This ratio has climbed steadily: 16.1% in Q1 2025 and 19.2% in Q2. It raised full-year capital expenditure guidance to about $125 billion, with most of the funds going to AWS data centres that support AI workloads. Spending is expected to rise further in 2026. That level of investment places Amazon among the largest spenders in the technology sector. However, higher investments in AI infrastructure add to financial strain. Throughout its history, Amazon has pursued growth through efficiency, reflected in its founder’s philosophy: Your margin is my opportunity. A substantial share of its budget is directed toward in-house technologies like Trainium chips, reducing reliance on third-party GPUs. Amazon says its own chips provide 30–40% better price-performance than comparable GPUs. Customers like Anthropic are deploying hundreds of thousands of Trainium2 chips for models like Claude. Adoption is growing, but it still trails Nvidia. Also Read | Artificial intelligence’s next home: your eyes Labour rebalanceIn the recent quarter, Amazon reported a $1.8 billion pre-tax charge for severance related to planned job cuts, reflecting one of its largest corporate restructurings in years. The layoffs, affecting about 14,000 employees, were announced shortly before the earnings release. During the earnings call, Jassy said the cuts were not AI-driven. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before, and you end up with a lot more layers," he said. “Sometimes, without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people doing the actual work. And it can slow you down." While Jassy has emphasized culture, the broader context is a shift toward automation across Amazon’s operations. The company aims to automate 75% of its fulfillment network and has deployed more than one million robots globally. These investments suggest a gradual substitution of capital for labour. Amazon’s workforce totalled 1.56 million in 2024, roughly unchanged from two years earlier despite higher sales and output, but down from 1.6 million in the covid-hit 2021. Also Read | AWS disruption: The world needs a more reliable internet Store strategyCorrecting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data In the September quarter, AWS reported revenues of $33 billion, up 20.2% from $27.5 billion in Q3 2024. It outpaced the segment's 19% growth in Q3 2024 and exceeded Wall Street's 18.1% forecast. The results lifted AWS’s annualized run rate to $132 billion. During the earnings call, CEO Andy Jassy highlighted that the division was "growing at a pace we haven’t seen since 2022," attributing this to "strong demand in AI and machine learning." It addressed investors’ concerns that AWS—which holds about 31% of global cloud infrastructure, according to recent Synergy Research data—might be struggling to manage scale. It could also leverage other changes in the market, such as the friction between Microsoft and its long-standing partner OpenAI. Earlier this week, Amazon signed a $38 billion cloud agreement with OpenAI. The deal could increase its $200 billion backlog by about 20% in the fourth quarter, according to BMO Capital Markets. It also gave AWS a clearer path to recover market share lost to Microsoft and Alphabet. Capital pushTo sustain growth, Amazon has to sustain capital spending. In Q3 2025, its capex hit $35.1 billion, or 19.5% of revenue, up from 14.8% in Q4 2024. This ratio has climbed steadily: 16.1% in Q1 2025 and 19.2% in Q2. It raised full-year capital expenditure guidance to about $125 billion, with most of the funds going to AWS data centres that support AI workloads. Spending is expected to rise further in 2026. That level of investment places Amazon among the largest spenders in the technology sector. However, higher investments in AI infrastructure add to financial strain. Throughout its history, Amazon has pursued growth through efficiency, reflected in its founder’s philosophy: Your margin is my opportunity. A substantial share of its budget is directed toward in-house technologies like Trainium chips, reducing reliance on third-party GPUs. Amazon says its own chips provide 30–40% better price-performance than comparable GPUs. Customers like Anthropic are deploying hundreds of thousands of Trainium2 chips for models like Claude. Adoption is growing, but it still trails Nvidia. Also Read | Artificial intelligence’s next home: your eyes Labour rebalanceIn the recent quarter, Amazon reported a $1.8 billion pre-tax charge for severance related to planned job cuts, reflecting one of its largest corporate restructurings in years. The layoffs, affecting about 14,000 employees, were announced shortly before the earnings release. During the earnings call, Jassy said the cuts were not AI-driven. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before, and you end up with a lot more layers," he said. “Sometimes, without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people doing the actual work. And it can slow you down." While Jassy has emphasized culture, the broader context is a shift toward automation across Amazon’s operations. The company aims to automate 75% of its fulfillment network and has deployed more than one million robots globally. These investments suggest a gradual substitution of capital for labour. Amazon’s workforce totalled 1.56 million in 2024, roughly unchanged from two years earlier despite higher sales and output, but down from 1.6 million in the covid-hit 2021. Also Read | AWS disruption: The world needs a more reliable internet Store strategyCorrecting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data To sustain growth, Amazon has to sustain capital spending. In Q3 2025, its capex hit $35.1 billion, or 19.5% of revenue, up from 14.8% in Q4 2024. This ratio has climbed steadily: 16.1% in Q1 2025 and 19.2% in Q2. It raised full-year capital expenditure guidance to about $125 billion, with most of the funds going to AWS data centres that support AI workloads. Spending is expected to rise further in 2026. That level of investment places Amazon among the largest spenders in the technology sector. However, higher investments in AI infrastructure add to financial strain. Throughout its history, Amazon has pursued growth through efficiency, reflected in its founder’s philosophy: Your margin is my opportunity. A substantial share of its budget is directed toward in-house technologies like Trainium chips, reducing reliance on third-party GPUs. Amazon says its own chips provide 30–40% better price-performance than comparable GPUs. Customers like Anthropic are deploying hundreds of thousands of Trainium2 chips for models like Claude. Adoption is growing, but it still trails Nvidia. Labour rebalanceIn the recent quarter, Amazon reported a $1.8 billion pre-tax charge for severance related to planned job cuts, reflecting one of its largest corporate restructurings in years. The layoffs, affecting about 14,000 employees, were announced shortly before the earnings release. During the earnings call, Jassy said the cuts were not AI-driven. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before, and you end up with a lot more layers," he said. “Sometimes, without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people doing the actual work. And it can slow you down." While Jassy has emphasized culture, the broader context is a shift toward automation across Amazon’s operations. The company aims to automate 75% of its fulfillment network and has deployed more than one million robots globally. These investments suggest a gradual substitution of capital for labour. Amazon’s workforce totalled 1.56 million in 2024, roughly unchanged from two years earlier despite higher sales and output, but down from 1.6 million in the covid-hit 2021. Also Read | AWS disruption: The world needs a more reliable internet Store strategyCorrecting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data In the recent quarter, Amazon reported a $1.8 billion pre-tax charge for severance related to planned job cuts, reflecting one of its largest corporate restructurings in years. The layoffs, affecting about 14,000 employees, were announced shortly before the earnings release. During the earnings call, Jassy said the cuts were not AI-driven. “If you grow as fast as we did for several years, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before, and you end up with a lot more layers," he said. “Sometimes, without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people doing the actual work. And it can slow you down." While Jassy has emphasized culture, the broader context is a shift toward automation across Amazon’s operations. The company aims to automate 75% of its fulfillment network and has deployed more than one million robots globally. These investments suggest a gradual substitution of capital for labour. Amazon’s workforce totalled 1.56 million in 2024, roughly unchanged from two years earlier despite higher sales and output, but down from 1.6 million in the covid-hit 2021. Store strategyCorrecting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data Correcting for covid-era overhiring is not the only reset Amazon is undertaking. In physical retail, Amazon is scaling back its direct grocery experiment. The company said it was closing all 14 Amazon Fresh stores in the UK, signalling a retreat from a model that failed to gain traction. The focus is shifting to Whole Foods, where Amazon plans to expand locations and pilot a smaller ‘daily shop’ format designed for urban markets. It is also redirecting grocery efforts toward logistics, emphasizing same-day perishables delivery through Amazon.com. That service now reaches 1,000 US cities and is expected to double coverage by the end of 2025. Physical store revenue has remained steady at about $5.6 billion per quarter. As it experiments and expands its business, Amazon is also regularly facing regulatory and legal hurdles. It settled a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) complaint over Prime subscriptions with a $2.5 billion charge, which includes $1 billion in penalties and $1.5 billion in refunds. A separate antitrust lawsuit from the FTC and 18 states remains pending, with a trial expected in 2027. All these challenges will test the sustainability of Amazon’s business bets. www.howindialives.com is a database and search engine for public data Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment. You are just one step away from creating your watchlist! Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image. Your session has expired, please login again. You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder. This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp
--------------------------------------------------

Title: New Mass Effect Game to Feature Krogan Civil War
URL: https://wccftech.com/new-mass-effect-game-to-feature-krogan-civil-war/
Time Published: 2025-11-08T19:30:00Z
Full Content:
Yesterday was N7 Day, the yearly franchise appreciation day that Mass Effect developer BioWare has held every November 7 since 2012. In the game, N7 is a vocational code in the Systems Alliance military, where the N designates special forces and the 7 refers to the highest level of proficiency, thus referring to the main character, Shepard, and his strike team. N7 Day 2025 delivered confirmation that the studio, despite the layoffs, is still working on the next Mass Effect game. In the blog post, long-time Executive Producer Mike Gamble inserted a secret message that the fans eventually decoded, revealing a new artwork from the upcoming game. The art depicts Krogan characters and features the subtitle 'Civil War'. This hints at one of the themes we may discover in the game: a major division within the Krogan race between at least two factions. Those who have played previous Mass Effect games are certainly familiar with the Krogan, a species of large, reptilian bipeds native to the planet Tuchanka. They famously survived despite the harsh environment of their home world, only to destroy it themselves in a nuclear war. The survivors split into tribes that were constantly at war with one another. Indeed, they are considered a warrior race, but some of them do not necessarily wish to perpetuate the seemingly endless cycle of fighting that has characterized the Krogans. This may be the primary source of the disagreement, though it's only speculation at this point, of course. The next Mass Effect is at least three to four years away, and fans may have to make do with just art teasers in the near future. There is, however, the Amazon TV series in development, and BioWare confirmed that it will be an original story (written by Daniel Casey and directed by Doug Jung) set after the original Mass Effect trilogy. We'll keep you updated once there are casting news on the show. Follow Wccftech on Google to get more of our news coverage in your feeds. © 2025 WCCF TECH INC. 700 - 401 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Tech Workers Are in Deep, Deep Trouble
URL: http://futurism.com/future-society/tech-labor-layoffs-ai
Time Published: 2025-11-08T17:45:00Z
Full Content:
By Joe Wilkins Published Nov 8, 2025 12:45 PM EST For years, any American kid eying a stable, future-proof job was told to “learn to code.” Now in 2025, anyone who followed that advice faces a painful reckoning: a decade of booming computer science enrollments has created a massive pile-up of graduates entering an abysmal job market. A new report by the analyst firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas, which tracks layoffs across various industries, found that the US tech industry had the highest number of layoffs in October of any sector, with a whopping 33,281 tech workers out of the job. That’s an awfully high number for one month, and it looks even worse in context — just a month earlier, the number of tech industry layoffs was only 5,639. Tech companies are planning to lay off 141,159 jobs this year so far, per the report, up from 120,470 over the same period in 2024. And it likely may not look much better in the near future, either. “It’s possible with rate cuts and a strong showing in November, companies may make a late-season push for employees,” the report reads, “but at this point, we do not expect a strong seasonal hiring environment in 2025.” The analysis was spotted by SF Gate, which reported that tech company job cuts in the US are at their highest levels since 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic ushered in a short-lived recession. For the month of October, however, the analyst report notes that total layoffs haven’t been this high since 2003 — in other words, not even the global financial crisis was this much of a bloodbath. While it’s easy to blame AI for the tech industry layoffs, CG&C highlights some other factors contributing to the dismal labor news. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” the firm wrote. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes.” Across all industries, “those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market,” the report commentary read. The depressing economic news comes as tech companies look to be some of the first adopters of their own AI systems, a proving ground of sorts for the software they hope will bring about a new stage of human civilization. Last week, Amazon cut some 14,000 jobs within its corporate offices, with thousands more likely on the way. Over the summer, when Microsoft sacked 9,000 employees, its CEO suggested freshly-unemployed workers turn to AI chatbots to help “reduce the emotional and cognitive load that comes with job loss.” Meanwhile, there’s plenty of reason to doubt that AI is actually capable of replacing thousands of employees — a narrative tech executives have a material interest in maintaining. While some companies like Amazon were surely over-bloated following pandemic hiring sprees, AI is mostly failing when used to improve revenue streams, the reason companies execute these layoffs in the first place. The question, then, is how much deeper the layoffs are going to go — something only some of the most powerful corporate executives can answer. More on labor: The AI Industry Is Traumatizing Desperate Contractors in the Developing World for Pennies I’m a tech and transit correspondent for Futurism, where my beat includes transportation, infrastructure, and the role of emerging technologies in governance, surveillance, and labor. By Joe Wilkins By Victor Tangermann By Victor Tangermann By Joe Wilkins By Frank Landymore By Joe Wilkins By Noor Al-Sibai By Joe Wilkins By Joe Wilkins By Victor Tangermann By Sharon Adarlo By Joe Wilkins By Frank Landymore By Noor Al-Sibai By Joe Wilkins By Joe Wilkins By Joe Wilkins By Frank Landymore By Frank Landymore By Sharon Adarlo By Joe Wilkins Disclaimer(s) Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service. © 2025 Recurrent. All rights reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Amazon workers with disabilities file suit against tech giant, alleging systematic discrimination
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/amazon-workers-with-disabilities-file-suit-against-tech-giant-alleging-systematic-discrimination-151735733.html
Time Published: 2025-11-08T15:17:35Z
Description: Nine Amazon employees filed a lawsuit proposing a class-action suit in a federal district court in Seattle on Oct. 20.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Amazon workers with disabilities sue tech giant, alleging systematic discrimination
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/amazon-workers-with-disabilities-sue-tech-giant-alleging-systematic-discrimination-150008335.html
Time Published: 2025-11-08T15:00:08Z
Description: Nine Amazon employees filed a lawsuit proposing a class-action suit in a federal district court in Seattle on Oct. 20.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ‘Uncertainty is fundamental reality,’ says Deepak Chopra: Here's how to cope if you're feeling afraid or anxious
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/11/08/deepak-chopra-how-to-navigate-fear-in-a-time-of-uncertainty.html
Time Published: 2025-11-08T14:00:01Z
Description: Uncertainty can be an opportunity, says wellness guru and writer Deepak Chopra.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: NetEase shuts down Bad Brain Games Studio after The Midnight Riders project fails to secure funding
URL: https://www.notebookcheck.net/NetEase-shuts-down-Bad-Brain-Games-Studio-after-The-Midnight-Riders-project-fails-to-secure-funding.1158516.0.html
Time Published: 2025-11-08T05:33:00Z
Full Content:
In another unfortunate event in the games industry, NetEase has shuttered its Canadian subsidiary, Bad Brain Games Studios, making it the second studio to close under the publisher this week, following Fantastic Pixel Castle. Bad Brain Games, based out of Toronto, was established in 2023 and consisted of former Ubisoft developers, particularly from the Watch Dogs series. The studio confirmed it will halt operations on November 17, 2025, after failing to secure new funding or investment for its project, codenamed The Midnight Riders. Studio head Sean Crooks broke the news on LinkedIn and said, “It’s with a heavy heart that we share that Bad Brain Game Studios will be closing its doors.” He explained that the studio had explored every avenue to secure external investment, but to no avail. He praised the team’s “creativity and commitment” as they “pushed creative and technical boundaries every day with passion, imagination, and craft.” The Midnight Riders was supposed to be a retro-themed action-adventure game featuring a group of school-going teenagers, exploring mysterious worlds on bicycles and hunting down eldritch horrors with everyday objects like slingshots and baseball bats. Bad Brain Games released a small sizzle reel that drew tons of praise for the project’s art direction and intriguing gameplay. Despite the sudden halt in The Midnight Riders' development, Crooks stated that the project and its IP remain “available with acquisition or partnership.” The studio is still clinging to hope as Crooks said, “We believe strongly in what was created, and would love to see this world find its way to players.” Bad Brain Games Studios consisted of nearly two dozen employees, many of whom had been poached from major studios. Unfortunately, staff members are scrambling for new opportunities amid a brutal wave of layoffs in the video game industry, which has left tens of thousands of developers out of work. Crooks wrapped up the post, stating, “Your encouragement and belief in what we were building meant the world to us. While this chapter is ending sooner than we had hoped, the spirit of what we created at Bad Brain will live on through the incredible people who made it possible.” This is the third NetEase-related high-profile studio shut down in recent months. The first casualty was T-Minus Zero Entertainment. Yet T-Minus Zero managed to strike a deal with a consortium of veteran directors and founders for the studio’s name and assets. Bad Brain Games Midnight Riders hangs in limbo, awaiting any interested bidder willing to revive the title. Buy Watch Dogs: Legion on Amazon Bad Brain Games Studios - Linkedin
--------------------------------------------------

Title: You’ve just been laid off because of AI — here’s what to do next
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/11/08/youve-just-been-laid-off-because-of-ai-heres-what-to-do-next-.html
Time Published: 2025-11-08T00:41:47Z
Description: "AI literacy is likely to become a baseline requirement for jobs in the future," Glassdoor's Chief Economist Daniel Zhao told CNBC Make It.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: BioWare is still working on the next Mass Effect game, the studio says in N7 Day message — "EA and BioWare remain committed."
URL: https://www.windowscentral.com/gaming/bioware-still-working-next-mass-effect-november-2025
Time Published: 2025-11-07T22:48:48Z
Full Content:
For N7 Day 2025, BioWare shares a message reiterating that the next Mass Effect game is in development. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works. Role-playing game developer BioWare has traditionally shared new teases, updates, or messages to the Mass Effect player community on November 7, or "N7 Day," reflecting the in-game designation for special operatives. For N7 Day 2025, BioWare declined to share any new tidbits about its next game, instead simply reiterating that the game is coming, pushing back against recent online chatter that it's in trouble or will be cancelled. "You’ve made it clear you care deeply about what’s next. So let’s start by setting the record straight: the next Mass Effect game is in development, and EA and BioWare remain committed to telling more stories in this universe," the statement reads. "The truth is, the last few years have been an incredibly busy time at BioWare. But currently, the team is heads-down and focused exclusively on Mass Effect. We have a lot of universe to cover, lots of features to build, and lots of romances to figure out. We’re excited by what we’re building, and we promise you: when we’re ready, it’ll be a lot of fun to show."This comes as Electronic Arts' (EA's) overall game division has seen a turbulent past few months. At the start of the year, BioWare was subjected to layoffs, reducing the studio down to under 100 staff. In April, hundreds of additional workers were laid off, including some at Apex Legends and Star Wars Jedi developer Respawn Entertainment. More cuts came shortly after, with EA cancelling a Black Panther game and closing the developer.Now, EA has agreed to go private in a deal financed by private equity and Saudi Arabian investment, leading to concerns over the tone and content present in future games, as well as fears of additional cuts. While the next Mass Effect game was first announced with a teaser back in 2020, extremely little has been shared since then. BioWare did present a new teaser for N7 Day 2023, which showed off a new character design and hinted towards a possible game title of Epsilon (or Mass Effect 5, in a more literal sense). While there are no new tidbits regarding what players can expect from the next Mass Effect game, BioWare's update does shed some light on the long-gestating Mass Effect TV series in production at Amazon. We now know that the series will take place after the events of the original trilogy, and it is not going to be a retelling of the story of Commander Shepard.This is similar in approach to the Fallout TV series (which was also produced by Amazon), which is set years after the events of Fallout 4. I previously argued it would be a mistake to try and have a "canon" Commander Shepard and accompanying choices in the TV series, so I'm certainly happy to see BioWare confirm things won't go that way.Finally, there's a curious pattern scattered throughout the message. A few letters of different words in BioWare's blog post are italicized, and put together, they spell out "URL KROGAN."Combined with a vague post on X (formerly Twitter) from the official Mass Effect account, some players quickly figured out that it linked to a new piece of artwork, presenting a Krogan civil War. The Krogan are easily my favorite race in the Mass Effect universe, so I'm already speculating about just what this event could entail.As for the message itself, while I certainly understand what BioWare is aiming to do here, it's still hard not to feel worried. I wish the team the best, and I hope things go well in the months and years to come. Mass Effect Legendary Edition compiles all three original games into one remastered package. It's a must-play for any fans of action-RPGs, and you can snag an Xbox copy for just $9 right now. See at: Loaded (formerly CDKeys) No, the next Mass Effect game does not have a release date or even the vaguest window. Extremely little is known at this time. Follow Windows Central on Google News to keep our latest news, insights, and features at the top of your feeds! All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. Samuel Tolbert is a freelance writer covering gaming news, previews, reviews, interviews and different aspects of the gaming industry, specifically focusing on Xbox and PC gaming on Windows Central. You can find him on Bluesky ‪@samueltolbert.bsky.social‬. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Please login or signup to comment Please wait...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Stock market today: Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq end volatile week lower amid worst tech sell-off since April
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-dow-sp-500-nasdaq-end-volatile-week-lower-amid-worst-tech-sell-off-since-april-210026318.html
Time Published: 2025-11-07T21:00:26Z
Description: Markets trimmed losses as investors weighed Musk's $1T pay package and deteriorating jobs data.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Stock market today: Nasdaq, S&P 500, Dow rise off lows as rough week for tech nears end
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-nasdaq-sp-500-dow-come-off-lows-as-rough-week-for-tech-nears-end-201237522.html
Time Published: 2025-11-07T20:12:37Z
Description: Markets trimmed losses as investors weighed Musk's $1T pay package and deteriorating jobs data.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Last month marked worst October for layoffs in more than 20 years: Challenger
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4351303/posts
Time Published: 2025-11-07T18:10:17Z
Full Content:
Skip to comments. Posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind Technology firms led private-sector job cuts as employers looked to cut costs and address AI. Last month was the worst October for layoff announcements since 2003 as companies slashed roles to save money, pared back pandemic-era hires, and planned ahead for artificial intelligence, according to the global outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. Employers announced 153,074 cuts last month, compared to 55,597 cuts in October 2024. Last month’s figure was “the highest total for October in over 20 years, and the highest total for a single month in the fourth quarter since 2008,” Andy Challenger, chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a report Thursday. Altogether, US firms announced the end of 1,099,500 positions through the first 10 months of this year, up 44% from the 761,358 cuts seen for the entirety of 2024. Technology businesses led private-sector layoffs. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” Challenger said in a statement. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Last month was the worst October for layoff announcements since 2003 as companies slashed roles to save money, pared back pandemic-era hires, and planned ahead for artificial intelligence, according to the global outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. Employers announced 153,074 cuts last month, compared to 55,597 cuts in October 2024. Last month’s figure was “the highest total for October in over 20 years, and the highest total for a single month in the fourth quarter since 2008,” Andy Challenger, chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a report Thursday. Altogether, US firms announced the end of 1,099,500 positions through the first 10 months of this year, up 44% from the 761,358 cuts seen for the entirety of 2024. Technology businesses led private-sector layoffs. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” Challenger said in a statement. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Employers announced 153,074 cuts last month, compared to 55,597 cuts in October 2024. Last month’s figure was “the highest total for October in over 20 years, and the highest total for a single month in the fourth quarter since 2008,” Andy Challenger, chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a report Thursday. Altogether, US firms announced the end of 1,099,500 positions through the first 10 months of this year, up 44% from the 761,358 cuts seen for the entirety of 2024. Technology businesses led private-sector layoffs. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” Challenger said in a statement. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Altogether, US firms announced the end of 1,099,500 positions through the first 10 months of this year, up 44% from the 761,358 cuts seen for the entirety of 2024. Technology businesses led private-sector layoffs. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” Challenger said in a statement. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” Challenger said in a statement. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” he continued. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Recent notable layoff announcements have come from Amazon (AMZN), Target (TGT), and UPS (UPS). Year-to-date cuts are at their highest since 2020, Challenger said, when the pandemic wreaked havoc on the labor market. The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... TOPICS: Business/Economy; Culture/Society; News/Current Events KEYWORDS: h1b; jobs; layoffs; technology Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last 1 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:17 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. 2 posted on 11/07/2025 10:10:45 AM PST by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I said this yesterday.This doesn't fall squarely on Trump, but if we continue to see headlines like this (these reports are not politically biased), we are VERY naive to think the GOP won't get its butt kicked in the midterms...the labor market isn't as great as Trump purports it to be. 3 posted on 11/07/2025 10:12:50 AM PST by millenial4freedom (Government was supposed to preserve freedom, not serve as a jobs program for delinquents and misfits) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: All Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations 4 posted on 11/07/2025 10:16:45 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS 5 posted on 11/07/2025 10:17:25 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No mention of how many were H1Bs ? 6 posted on 11/07/2025 10:20:03 AM PST by stylin19a ("Death Smiles At Everyone - Marines Smile Back" - 250 years of smiling - 11/10/2025) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: stylin19a Stop all work visas now! 7 posted on 11/07/2025 10:21:59 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 6 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ 8 posted on 11/07/2025 10:26:03 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? 9 posted on 11/07/2025 10:30:18 AM PST by dakine [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. 10 posted on 11/07/2025 10:33:16 AM PST by kaktuskid [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: dakine Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL 11 posted on 11/07/2025 10:35:04 AM PST by butlerweave (Fateh) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. 12 posted on 11/07/2025 10:37:19 AM PST by roving [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: roving; All Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. 13 posted on 11/07/2025 10:40:18 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 12 | View Replies] To: millenial4freedom Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? 14 posted on 11/07/2025 10:44:23 AM PST by CodeToad [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind OH, THE HORROR!!!! ......Oh the media bull shit! The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. 15 posted on 11/07/2025 10:49:19 AM PST by rdcbn1 (..when poets buy guns, tourist season is over................Walter R. Mead.l) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. 16 posted on 11/07/2025 10:56:20 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: rdcbn1 full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. at the wages they set and are willing to pay. The concept of a free market for wages is BS and needs to be put down. Fixed it. 17 posted on 11/07/2025 11:00:40 AM PST by central_va ( I won't be reconstructed and I do not give a damn...x) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 15 | View Replies] To: dakine Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. 18 posted on 11/07/2025 11:02:44 AM PST by Capn Hayek (Capital is not responsible for Labor's lack of planning) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 9 | View Replies] To: All If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes 19 posted on 11/07/2025 11:11:50 AM PST by escapefromboston (Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: butlerweave Bingo 20 posted on 11/07/2025 11:12:48 AM PST by Vaduz [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Challenger report comes amid a data drought from the Labor Department due to the government shutdown — now the longest in US history. The last official jobs report reflects labor conditions from August, while data from September has yet to be published. October’s jobs report, due out tomorrow, is unlikely to be published. (Excerpt) Read more at finance.yahoo.com ... The article goes on to say: Through August, the story was that the labor market was essentially in stasis: an environment of low hiring and low firing, with unemployment nudging up to 4.3% as the unemployed struggled to find available positions and the employed clung to their roles. It’s unlikely the situation has changed dramatically since then — data from the payroll processor ADP published Wednesday actually showed modest job growth among private employers for October, with hiring gains mixed by sector. Sounds like we need less immigrant (especially h1b visa scammers) and increased deportations Worthless AI is KILLING JOBS No mention of how many were H1Bs ? Stop all work visas now! A lot of the government workers who took the Trump termination package were officially terminated in October Just sayin’ Curious, if ‘AI’ is worthless, are the jobs it is ‘killing’ worthless?? What do you do with all of the “laid off” white collar people? Have them code? We need an “Industrial Renaissance” in this country on the same level as what we did during WW2. More oil and gas production, more new refineries and power plants, strengthening the electrical grid. Domestic production of all metals including rare metals, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. And we need to tell the enviros to stick it. Companies haven’t figured out the useless part yet they think they’re saving money ,LOL No one will have the money to buy the product because there will be no jobs. Universal income is in the future. You will own nothing and be happy. Funny how NO ONE CARED when millions of factory jobs were offshored and entire towns were devastated. The silence was deafening. Define layoffs. When they are foreigners does it count? The Federal Reserve officially sets its benchmark for an optimum percentage of full employment at an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. Full employment is defined as the optimal range of unemployment where there a balance between the number of Americans gainfully employed and those seeking new job positions to avoid the negative economic consequences of labor shortages. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. Economists typically use 4-6% unemployment as an optimum number in our economy. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. If unemployment numbers go above an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are out of work but if unemployment numbers go below an unemployment rate of 5. 0 to 5. 2%. then too many people are working and there are the potential for serious labor shortages At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. At unemployment levels below 5.0% people who are looking for jobs are in high demand and can find a new and often better job quickly and with little difficulty. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. As of now, at an official 4.35 % unemployment we are well below the 5.0 % unemployment levels that the Federal Reserves considers the optimum for a healthy, dynamic economy that balances job mobility, full employment and an adequate pool of skilled workers so that employers can readily hire the kind of labor force they need without shortages. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. In fact, we are very close to the danger zone of too low of an unemployment rate for optimum economic growth. There is no such thing as a labor shortage. There are only wage shortages. Speaking as someone knee-deep? No, the jobs being replaced are not “worthless” - they’re simply getting priced out. I still need code. I still need QA. I still need analytics. For example, I still need QA done on a new product, new feature, etc. And a lot of QA is simply click, watch, report results. QA is traditionally an entry-level role - and the people who traditionally excelled and advanced were the ones who didn’t just punch a clock, record results, but learned to go further and do things like suggest a remedy or refine the report so corrections were properly/more rapidly routed. The role has value. But now? I can whip up an agentic AI solution that can do the clicks and more? Replace an analyst doing the routing. Too many people hear “AI” and they lean on RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation - basically, turning it look on the wild universe) and think it’s all about asking silly gotcha questions. The reality is: Within my limited stack, with lighter-RAG touches? I can - and we are - using agentic AI in closed boxes to replace a lot of entry-level work. I won’t argue that’s scary for the younger generation - and it should be! - but the reality is that a token-cost spend is maybe 10% of an FTE. I still need that work done - but nobody is going to spend 10X the cost to do it. My advice would be that it’s no different than any other technical advancement - and that’s been a fact of life forever. Automation, computers, networks, you name it. Make yourself valuable. Complain to the wind, or learn to adapt and figure out the value proposition. If Ai can make it cheaper to run a business by needing less employees I hope this leads to smaller businesses being able to compete. We will see how it goes Bingo Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-22 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: BioWare are "focused exclusively" on the next Mass Effect, says exec producer, along with a Krogan teaser
URL: https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/bioware-are-focused-exclusively-on-the-next-mass-effect-says-exec-producer-along-with-a-krogan-teaser
Time Published: 2025-11-07T18:02:38Z
Full Content:
"We have a lot of universe to cover, lots of features to build..." Even as the consortium led by Donald Trump's haunted finger puppet Jared Kushner and Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund proceed with their wildly leveraged $50 billion acquisition of Electronic Arts, Mass Effect executive producer Mike Gamble would like everybody to know that we're just fine, you guys. Everything is hunkey-dorey over here at BioWare, a studio whose last few, famously difficult original videogame projects both severely undershot commercial expectations, as we gaze down the barrel of a buyout that will leave our parent organisation $20 billion in debt and beholden to new owners who may disagree with everything we stand for, and who allegedly want to juice the screws with generative AI. Happy N7 Day, you bastards. Here's a cute coded message for you about the future of Mass Effect, 13 years since the last indisputably good one (sorry Nic). Please ignore the tears streaming down my face. OK, so this characterisation is both mean-spirited and quite silly, but I cannot read Gamble's smiling words without hearing somebody cocking a Kessler out of shot. "Like you, we've heard the rumors lately," he acknowledges, after some seasonal preamble. "You've made it clear you care deeply about what's next. So let's start by setting the record straight: the next Mass Effect game is in development, and EA and BioWare remain committed to telling more stories in this universe." For context, the next Mass Effect game was sort-of-announced in 2020. Since then, there has been the occasional snippet of info about the possible return of the Geth and the definite return of senior developers from the original trilogy, but nothing of real substance, for BioWare's attention has been firmly fixed on the completion of Dragon Age: The Veilguard. The latter missed EA's opening quarterly targets, prompting mass layoffs in a year when EA staff earned less on average while CEO Andrew Wilson got himself a pay rise. All this was before the proposed $50 billion dollar acquisition, which has led one former Dragon Age executive to speculate that EA might sell BioWare or close them down. "The truth is, the last few years have been an incredibly busy time at BioWare," Gamble went on. "But currently, the team is heads-down and focused exclusively on Mass Effect. We have a lot of universe to cover, lots of features to build, and lots of romances to figure out. We're excited by what we're building, and we promise you: when we're ready, it'll be a lot of fun to show." He also gave an update on the forthcoming Mass Effect TV show, on which BioWare are collaborating with Amazon. Amazon, the revolting business empire that turned Sauron into an office creep, though I will concede they did an OK job with Fallout. "The writers room is going strong, and we've got a lot figured out about how it fits within the Mass Effect canon, and where it sits in respect to the new game," Gamble added. "The show will explore a brand-new story within the universe's timeline, and will be set after the original trilogy. It won't be a retread of Commander Shepard's story - because after all ... that's YOUR story, isn't it?" It is, Mike, and I'll thank Jeff Bezos to keep his stinking space colonisation fantasies away from my precious Normandy. If you're wondering why the blog post text looks weird, that's because as with N7 Day bulletins of yore, it contains a hidden message. Tot up all the italicised words, including game names, and you get "u r l Mass Effect k r g a n", unless I've missed a few. Which I guess points towards a website of some kind, while teasing that the Krogan are in Mass Effect 5. I've jumbled the letters up several times and I can't find a way to make it read "please Sony buy us". Mass Effect 5 PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PC Rock Paper Shotgun is better when you sign in Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Retail industry remains one of ‘hardest hit’ from 2025 job cuts
URL: https://www.retaildive.com/news/retail-industry-hardest-hit-2025-job-cuts-layoffs/804999/
Time Published: 2025-11-07T16:55:00Z
Full Content:
Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox. The federal government again did not publish its monthly jobs report, but Challenger, Gray & Christmas data shows another period of high layoffs across sectors. October turned out to be a bleak month for some retail employees who, just ahead of the holidays, found out their roles are being eliminated. It was also a rough month overall, as it marked the highest job cut total in October in more than 20 years. Through the first 10 months of the year, U.S. employers have now cut more than 1 million jobs, according to Challenger, the highest total since 2020. “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month,” said Andy Challenger, workplace expert and chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas. “Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes.” In retail, October brought on major layoff announcements from some of the industry’s biggest players. Target announced it would cut 1,000 corporate staff and close 800 open roles — representing about 8% of its global headquarters workforce — as part of an effort to streamline its corporate structure. However, the impact is not immediate, with laid off employees receiving pay and benefits until Jan. 3. E-commerce giant Amazon also announced it would cut about 14,000 corporate roles and will offer most employees 90 days to find a new position internally, if they wish to. Additionally, Puma in October revealed it plans to eliminate about 900 more corporate jobs globally and Carter’s said it will lay off about 300 corporate employees by the end of the year. Some retailers are still focused on hiring for the busy holiday season though. For example, Dick’s Sporting Goods is aiming to hire 14,000 associates across its businesses, Amazon will again plan to hire 250,000 workers and Michael's is planning to bring on 10,000 seasonal workers. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Each year brings unique headwinds and tailwinds. From increased attention on DEI efforts to the shifting nature of DTC, this is what we’ll be following in 2025. North America accounts for most of the revenue difference between the rivals, and Adidas CEO Bjørn Gulden is pushing the retailer to be “more American.” Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Each year brings unique headwinds and tailwinds. From increased attention on DEI efforts to the shifting nature of DTC, this is what we’ll be following in 2025. North America accounts for most of the revenue difference between the rivals, and Adidas CEO Bjørn Gulden is pushing the retailer to be “more American.” The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Friday Bullet Points More Video Game Endings
URL: https://tagn.wordpress.com/2025/11/07/friday-bullet-points-more-video-game-endings/
Time Published: 2025-11-07T16:15:23Z
Full Content:
And not the good kind. It is Friday and there are some news items that have popped up that I want to notice, even if only in passing. The writing was on the wall for the unloved Tencent MMORPG. I am pretty sure the MMO news sites spent more time trying to cast some spurious unflattering narrative or another about the game than actually seeing it for what it was… another mediocre entry in a very tired niche market. Is that the sun setting over the clouds? Is this MMORPG Elysium? The crime wasn’t cloning or being a throw away title as one columnist kept suggesting. There was nothing intrinsically wrong with it, even if I did not love the control scheme. Rather, it was another failure to read the room, to see that the classic DikuMUD inspired, level grinding MMORPG is dead. Or, if not dead, then stale enough that the odor coming off of the genre suggests death. I haven’t really looked forward to a new fantasy MMORPG in over a decade. Maybe I am jaded… or maybe there has really been nothing new under the sun in the genre for a long, long time. I mean, I have a quote from GDC 2007 that called it almost 20 years ago: …because of WoW, and all the dumb money and all the publisher pressure, there’ll be lots of games that shouldn’t have been MMOs but would have been great boxed products. Lots of publishers are pushing for that subscription pie, but they’ll fail. -Rob Pardo, MMOs Past, Present, and Future Panel at GDC 2007 Some titles are great and thrive as a massive experience. But most don’t. We’ve seen it over and over and over and over again. It isn’t that nobody can beat WoW or that WoW destroyed the genre… it is that replaying the same tropes and mechanics over and over for a couple of decades gets old. Tarisland was a competent recycling of those tired tropes. It did all the things expected of it. In a vacuum where nobody had seen a fantasy MMORPG, it could have been a winner. But we live in the real world where we have seen this model too many times, and the market for that sort of thing isn’t limitless… and was never as big as some suggested. The WoW-killer of myth was never going to be a copy of WoW’s model. Speaking of fantasy MMORPGs and tropes and what not, the Greg Street (formerly Ghostcrawler at Blizzard) and his studio Fantastic Pixel Castle lost its financial support from NetEase and was unable to find any other backers. My tirade above about the staleness of the MMORPG market and the complete failure of anything new in that specific niche to grab an audience and make a strong name for itself in the last decade or so could feed into this. We don’t know what plans they had or if their vision might have broken new ground or just attempted to revisit the same old scenes. Maybe NetEase couldn’t be convinced that there was any “there” there in the studio’s plan. Or maybe investors are skittish about big projects in general. The layoffs do not seem to be slowing down in the video games industry. We just saw Amazon bail out on the idea of any sort of large scale, live service game last week when they found that even their money couldn’t make the genre something it was not. Anyway, the princess that will save us from this was clearly in another castle this time around. EA is out there trying to woo the SEC to allow its board of directors to cash out… because not one of them ever cared a whit about making video games.. by selling the company to the Saudis in a deal that is structured in such a way as to blow up whatever EA was so as to end up with a shell of the former structure. I’ve been over that before in a whole post bidding farewell to EA and whatever it was. Despite having paid off the president by allowing his son-in-law to “broker” the deal for a huge fee, they are going through the motions and pretending somebody might object or try to block the acquisition. But nobody will. The president has put the most grossly incompetent people in charge of every government department to ensure they are only loyal to him and will only do what he says because they are mentally unprepared to do anything else. So the acquisition theater goes on, which included the FAQ that EA sent out to employees with the following entry: That is such a lie that I assume that the lawyer who wrote it was wearing asbestos underwear in order to shield himself from the inevitability of his pants bursting into flames due to the flagrance of the lack of candor being displayed. I mean sure, that first point is technically true, depending on your definition of immediate. EA won’t be driving people into the street with clubs the very moment the deal closes. But the company will be saddled with so much debt that the only reason some people will be kept around is that they probably can’t sell an unstaffed studio to another company. It will be a bloodbath and I will be mightily surprised if the company employs 20% of its current staff a year after the merger is complete. It will, in common with all such mergers and acquisitions, lead to job losses, studio closures, price increases, service reductions, and a variety of other lesser bad outcomes for the consumers, all to make a few individuals incrementally more wealthy and to allow the Saudis to have Madden titles featured at their esports complex in an attempt to put a friendly face on their bloodthirsty dictatorship. When people complain about the problems with late stage capitalism, this is what they are talking about, a situation where billionaires are rewarded for eliminating jobs and screwing over the general public with the full support and assistance of the government they have bought and paid for. My final entry is pretty small potatoes relative to the above. Another EVE Online fan site appears to have fallen over and will likely not be revived. This is a story that will keep repeating itself I am sure. Such sites do not last forever and the game suffers from time to time because CCP leans so hard on the community to fill in the gaps it cannot, or will not, fill itself. The company couldn’t even maintain a wiki about the game after all. In this case it was a simple site that collected the RSS feeds from the now dwindling few bloggers who write about the game and presented them in a few different views as well as a consolidated RSS feed that I run on the side bar of my other blog. It looks like the inner workings of the site gave up the ghost on October 18, after which it collected no more entries. The site only maintained a seven day combined feed, so its unified output dried up a week later. The site was run by Steve Ronouken, or Fuzzy Steve, a long time EVE Online industrialist and a former CSM member. Judging from his blog he hasn’t been active on the site for a few years. Something changed in the background or got updated and things broke I guess. The funny thing is that a dozen years ago there was a fight over who would host the site and claim the name when Marc Scaurus decided to step down from running his iteration of the site. There was community drama and name calling as two sides struggled to claim the EVE Bloggers name. Now none of the sites I mentioned in that post are up and running… except for Foo’s EVE Blogroll. We still have that at least. The site was never a huge source of traffic here or at my other site, but it was often a quality source, bringing people in already keen on the game. So it goes. Addendum: Oh, and a Warhammer MMO was cancelled as well. Re: Fantastic Pixel Castle, Josh Strife Hayes had a video a couple of months ago about him being invited to the pre-alpha of their MMO and he was entirely whelmed. Obviously it was early days, but it didn’t really look like they had a strong, coherent vision for their product (yet). LikeLike Yeah, I could see that. As soon as you start framing it up as an MMORPG or something adjacent, you get roped into a lot of assumptions, and building something out in a pre-Alpha state that speaks to the vision is difficult. LikeLike I expect EA to simply pump out annual FIFA and Madden updates, utilizing AI for all of the data (and the QA/QC work), and get rid of everything else. Okay, maybe throw The Sims a bone and have a few addons there too, but I’d also see The Sims more “aligned” with Saudi “sensibilities”. Everything else? Pretty much gone. The thing is, boardgames saw this already with the Embracer Group fueled buyout of everything under Asmodee’s umbrella. It took about 5-10 years, but all that bloodletting inevitably let to the game developer diaspora creating vibrant new boardgames under independent companies. That’ll happen with video games, but it’ll take a while. LikeLiked by 1 person Δ Email Address: Email Posts to Me! MMO Blog Feed 9.0 (powered by Inoreader) BlogrollAywren's NookBio BreakBlessing of KingsChasing Dings!Contains Moderate PerilEVE Online PicturesEVEHermitEVEOGANDAGoing CommandoHeartless GamerInventory FullKaylreineMailvaltarPriest with a CauseTales of the AggronautThe Nosy GamerWest Karana 2Yadot MMO & Gaming News and StudyGame DeveloperGames Industry.bizMassively OverpoweredMMO BombMMO FalloutMMORPG.com Currently PlayingEVE OnlineNo Man's SkyPaliaPalworldPokemon Go Not Playing But Watching or WaitingEnshroudedEverQuestEverQuest IILight No FireLord of the Rings OnlineStars ReachTorilMUDValheimWorld of WarcraftWoW Classic Game Company Updates Feed
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Will the Supreme Court overturn gay marriage rights in Kim Davis' Appeal? here's what reports say
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/will-the-supreme-court-overturn-gay-marriage-rights-in-kim-davis-appeal-heres-what-reports-say/articleshow/125163964.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-07T15:58:16Z
Full Content:
The Supreme Court is reviewing Kim Davis's plea to overturn the 2015 same-sex marriage ruling. Davis, a former Kentucky clerk, refused marriage licenses on religious grounds. The justices will vote on hearing her appeal. This case could impact religious freedom and marriage equality. Lower courts dismissed her claims. The court's decision is expected soon. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Porsche recalls over 3,000 vehicles in Canada across several models over safety issues which can lead to crash; check list of affected models and what you can do if yours is on the list Who was Dr. Agron Alija? Physician who died in Canada in a head on crash; how did he die; all you need to know Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati US: FAA nationwide flight cuts due to shutdown now in effect Ravi Kishan sparks BJP-Tej Pratap alliance speculation Dog bite menace: SC orders removal; Maneka Gandhi reacts Acharya Dhirendra Shastri leads ‘Sanatan Hindu Ekta Padyatra’ from Delhi Bhagalpur: Shah warns against Osama, Rahul urges to stop ‘vote chori’ 'Modi became PM through 'chunav chori'...': Rahul reaches out to Gen Z PM Modi inaugurates 150-year commemoration of Vande Mataram ‘Modi invited me, I may visit India next year’: Trump Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati US: FAA nationwide flight cuts due to shutdown now in effect Ravi Kishan sparks BJP-Tej Pratap alliance speculation Dog bite menace: SC orders removal; Maneka Gandhi reacts Acharya Dhirendra Shastri leads ‘Sanatan Hindu Ekta Padyatra’ from Delhi Bhagalpur: Shah warns against Osama, Rahul urges to stop ‘vote chori’ 'Modi became PM through 'chunav chori'...': Rahul reaches out to Gen Z PM Modi inaugurates 150-year commemoration of Vande Mataram ‘Modi invited me, I may visit India next year’: Trump Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Prime Articles Top Slideshow Top Commodities Private Companies Top Story Listing Top Definitions Most Searched IFSC Codes Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Will Elon Musk rescue the 3 Chinese astronauts stuck in space? Worldwide outcry mounts
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/will-elon-musk-rescue-the-3-chinese-astronauts-stuck-in-space-worldwide-outcry-mounts/articleshow/125163241.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-07T14:46:06Z
Full Content:
A global plea is urging Elon Musk to rescue three Chinese astronauts stranded in space after an 'unknown object' damaged their return capsule. The incident, believed to be caused by space debris, has drawn comparisons to a past NASA rescue facilitated by SpaceX. China has a backup vehicle on standby, but public sentiment favors Musk's intervention. Listen to this article in summarized format Unlock AI Briefing and Premium Content (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Porsche recalls over 3,000 vehicles in Canada across several models over safety issues which can lead to crash; check list of affected models and what you can do if yours is on the list Who was Dr. Agron Alija? Physician who died in Canada in a head on crash; how did he die; all you need to know Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Definitions Top Prime Articles Top Market Pages Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Private Companies Top Commodities Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: AMC Networks Sheds 5% Of Global Workforce Via Voluntary Buyouts
URL: http://deadline.com/2025/11/amc-networks-workforce-voluntary-buyouts-1236610587/
Time Published: 2025-11-07T14:28:30Z
Full Content:
By Dade Hayes Business Editor AMC Networks, which is continuing to navigate the transition from linear TV to streaming, is shedding less than 5% of its global workforce of 1,800 employees via voluntary buyouts. CEO Kristin Dolan announced the reduction Friday during the company’s third-quarter earnings call with Wall Street analysts. The company had earlier reported mixed results for the quarter, with advertising sliding 17% but streaming revenue climbing 14%. In the company’s earnings release, Dolan called the quarterly performance “a key milestone in our transition from a cable networks business to a global streaming and technology focused content company.” Dolan said “less than 5%” of the workforce would be departing as a result of an initiative to “ensure we have the right skills for the future.” She added that company leaders are “thankful for the contributions of those who have chosen to pursue new opportunities, and of course those who are driving this new era of the company.” Watch on Deadline AMC Networks, parent of cable networks AMC, IFC, Sundance TV, We TV and BBC America, also operates a portfolio of niche streaming services AMC+, Shudder and Acorn TV, with a total of 10.4 million subscribers. The downsizing at AMC Networks comes during a much broader pullback across the entertainment sector. Paramount, in the wake of its merger with Skydance, is laying off about 2,000 workers, about 10% of its total head count. Warner Bros. Discovery recently initiated layoffs in its cable business, and is likely to be part of more cutbacks as it nears a transaction to either be acquired or split into two companies. Disney also let several hundred workers go last summer. It isn’t just traditional media tightening the belt, however. Advances in artificial intelligence are resulting in significant cuts even at Big Tech firms. Amazon last month said it was cutting 14,000 corporate employees, including in publishing and video game development. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Comments On Deadline Hollywood are monitored. So don't go off topic, don't impersonate anyone, and don't get your facts wrong. Comment Name Email Website Δ Building a streaming infrastructure is such a waste of resources and will never see a positive ROI. Shut down linear, license legacy content to Netflix and YouTube, and deploy capital to produce new low-quantity, high-quality projects. There needs to be some infrastructure to invest in projects in the first place. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: October Layoffs Were the Worst Since 2003 and Hit Tech Workers Hard
URL: https://gizmodo.com/october-layoffs-were-the-worst-since-2003-and-hit-tech-workers-hard-2000682936
Time Published: 2025-11-07T14:15:59Z
Full Content:
Reading time 2 minutes A lot of people can feel that the economy isn’t doing so hot right now. Unfortunately, due to the government shutdown, we don’t have much in the way of official economic data to give statistical clarity to that feeling. However, more and more, private firms are releasing their economic analysis, and, much of the time, it doesn’t bode well for the American worker. Now, a new report shows that this October was a particularly brutal month for the U.S. workforce—and it was especially bad for the tech industry. The analysis, from career transition services firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas, shows that this past month was the worst in decades. The report states that U.S. employers announced some “153,074 job cuts in October, up 175% from the 55,597 cuts announced in October 2024. It is up 183% from the 54,064 job cuts announced one month prior.” Yikes, that’s a lot. And the cuts have been especially deep for Silicon Valley: Technology continues to lead in private-sector job cuts as companies restructure amid AI integration, slower demand, and efficiency pressures. In October, the sector announced 33,281 job cuts, up sharply from 5,639 in September. For the year, Technology firms have announced 141,159 job cuts, up 17% from the 120,470 announced through the same period in 2024. Yeah, that’s bad. That is not good at all. There’s no real way to spin that as good. “This is the highest total for October in over 20 years, and the highest total for a single month in the fourth quarter since 2008,” the report states. “Like in 2003, a disruptive technology is changing the landscape.” “October’s pace of job cutting was much higher than average for the month. Some industries are correcting after the hiring boom of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending, and rising costs drive belt-tightening and hiring freezes,” said Andy Challenger, workplace expert and chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas. “Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market.” We’ve already written about the huge layoffs that impacted the tech industry last month—including some 14,000 people who used to be (but are no longer) employed with Amazon. The exact reason for why tech companies are shedding jobs right now is still up in the air. One narrative attributes the layoffs to the rise of AI, but other commentators have noted that it could be much more mundane economic/business factors that are squeezing the industry like a lack of growth in non-AI sectors and tariff policy eating away at profits while making it difficult to plan for the future. Explore more on these topics Share this story Subscribe and interact with our community, get up to date with our customised Newsletters and much more. Students and parents reportedly shared the AI-generated image through social media and messaging apps. The world's richest man has created a fake world for himself. The representative of China's undisputed LLM leader also said "tech companies need to take the role of 'defender’.” There's a growing movement within the legal community to track the AI fumbles of their peers. The administration has come after researchers at institutions across the country. The feature is opt-in, but still raises concerns about privacy. ©2025 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Economists agree: You’re not crazy for feeling like the rich get richer, and the poor are doing worse. Welcome to the ‘K-shaped economy’
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/economists-agree-not-crazy-feeling-140000181.html
Time Published: 2025-11-07T14:00:00Z
Description: What was a niche argument about five years ago is suddenly everywhere you look, and it’s taking on the shape of a letter with two jagged edges.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Economists agree: You’re not crazy for feeling like the rich get richer, and the poor are doing worse. Welcome to the ‘K-shaped economy’
URL: https://fortune.com/2025/11/07/what-is-the-k-shaped-economy-wealth-inequality-explainer/
Time Published: 2025-11-07T14:00:00Z
Full Content:
Sasha Rogelberg is a reporter and former editorial fellow on the news desk at Fortune, covering retail and the intersection of business and popular culture. Eva is a fellow on Fortune's news desk. It all began with an anonymous Twitter handle named “Ivan the K.” The self-appointed “Lead Independent Director of Finance Twitter” had a dark theory in the depths of the pandemic. In 2020, they asked the universe, “Why is no one talking about a K recovery?” since there was much discussion at that time about an economic bounceback in the shape of either a U, an L, or, most bullish of all, a V. “Some things will bounce back,” Ivan wrote, “some will not recover. Think about it.” Economists seem to have thunk on it and agreed: The K is real. It bears similarities to another saying, invented nearly 200 years earlier by the great English romantic poet Percy Bysshe Shelley: “The rich get richer, the poor get poorer.” This is also called “the Matthew effect,” as some trace the sentiment all the way back to the bible’s Book of Matthew 25:29: “For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have abundance; but from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away.” If you ask Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, this old-time religion got a new lease on life in the Reaganomics of the 1980s. “You really start to see this in the Reagan era,” Zandi told Fortune. “That’s when you get a structural divergence between productivity growth and median wage growth.” Zandi argued that many elements combined then to weaken labor in favor of capital income: globalization, the decline of unions and manufacturing and major tax reforms. “The share of national income going to labor has been trending down since the early 1980s,” he said, “and the share going to capital owners—those who already have wealth—has gone up.” So what is it about 2025, five years after the pandemic severed something economically, that accelerated both sides of the “K” for the wealthy and the poor? First, consider the extraordinary surges in economic data seen, halfway through the 2020s. The stock market rallies have led to several record highs in 2025, incentivizing the (wealthier) Americans with money in the markets to loosen their purse strings. But the bottom half of the K is extending downwards, with fast-casual restaurants like Chipotle and Cava, and fast-food joints like McDonald’s, noting that lower-income customers, especially young people, are pulling back and preferring to dine at home. Zandi’s own research has turned up some stunning results, notably that in the second quarter of 2025 the top 10% of wealthiest Americans were responsible for a whopping 49% of consumer spending. That means the economy has grown so lopsided—or K-shaped—that the richest Americans are responsible for half the economy. The K-shape is creating the illusion in economic data that despite sticky inflation and tariff-related sticker shock, consumer spending remains “resilient.” Morgan Stanley Wealth Management’s Lisa Shalett has increasingly been sounding the alarm from her perch as chief investment officer. She told Fortune in an October interview that “the income inequality stuff is really getting like completely wackadoo,” specifically citing Zandi’s research: “That means 90% of the country is only half the consumption, I mean holy cannoli.” Shalett covered the K-shaped economy specifically in a November 3 research note, in the context of whether 2026 marks an early or late stage of the economic cycle for investors. “Decoding this conundrum may hinge on the so-called K-shaped economy,” she wrote, “a concept that captures the widening chasm between the ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots.’” Then Shalett said the situation is actually even worse than what Zandi produced: “For the U.S. consumer, wealth concentration has produced a situation where the top 40% of households by income account for approximately 60% of all spending; those households, in turn, control nearly 85% of America’s wealth, two-thirds of which is directly tied to the stock market, which has climbed more than 90% in three years.” She calculated that spending by the wealthiest households was growing 6x-7x faster than for the lowest cohort. Even Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell talked about seeing the pattern at October’s Federal Open Market Committee meeting. “If you listen to the earnings calls or the reports of big, public, consumer-facing companies, many of them are saying that there’s a bifurcated economy there and that consumers at the lower end are struggling and buying less and shifting to lower cost products,” Powell said last week. “But at the top, people are spending, at the higher income and wealth.” The concept of a bifurcated economy has been baked into American society longer than even the days of Reagan, according to Tyler Schipper, associate professor of economics at the University of St. Thomas. “There’s this underlying thing that has been true for decades and decades and decades,” Schipper told Fortune. “Number one, lower income households always struggle more in the economy. They tend to be more impacted by price changes because they’re spending a higher percentage of their income. “And second, that it tends to be that after each recession, lower income workers fall further behind in the income distribution,” he added. Today, conversations around the shape of the American economy are more urgent because more of the middle class—and those making about $100,000 per year—are getting pushed into the lower half of the K, Schipper said. This can be seen in mid-income and higher-income earners flocking to discount retailers like Walmart and Dollar General. It can even take on more absurd forms, with “Ralph Lauren Christmas” trending at unprecedented levels heading into the projected $1 trillion 2025 holiday season, but TikTok and Instagram full of tips on how to achieve the look of red-tartan-plaid and cozy sweaters on a budget—in other words, not at an actually expensive Ralph Lauren store. That lower half of the K is extending ever downward as the consumer encounters a unique set of challenges, including the inflationary impact of tariffs, according to Schipper. Lower-income households tend to spend more on essential goods more likely to be impacted by tariffs. The Yale Budget Lab calculated that the levies impact the bottom of the income ladder more than three times more than the top. A low-fire, low-hire labor market has also contributed to evidence of a two-tiered economy, said Claudia Sahm, chief economist at New Century Advisors and a former Federal Reserve economist. While tech layoffs have been top of mind following massive cuts from Amazon, layoff rates are still low, Sahm told Fortune, meaning if you have a job, you may feel more financially secure. If you’re just entering the job market like Gen Z is, you may have a hard time finding a job as firms contract following a post-COVID hiring spree, and as AI begins to displace entry-level jobs. To be sure, data from Challenger, Gray & Christmas released on Thursday found U.S. employers cut more than 150,000 jobs last month, the largest October reduction in two decades. But another part of the resurgence of discussions about a bifurcated economy comes from the relative nature of a K-shaped economy, according to Schipper. While the economy has historically been two-tiered, diverging consumer sentiment has also contributed to a narrative that two income groups are moving away from each other. For example, in 2022 when the stock market declined, consumer sentiment in both the top-third and bottom-third of income levels converged, according to data from the University of Michigan’s Survey of Consumers. A similar pattern occurred in April, when the announcement of Liberation Day tariffs spooked Americans across income levels, Schipper noted. Last month, however, consumer attitude toward the economy saw a greater split, with low-income Americans feeling far less confident about the economy than those high-income. Some economists point to the widening divide between the rich and the poor as a consequence of monetary policy. The Fed, over the past few years, has had a historic tightening cycle – eleven rate hikes between 2022 and 2024—which was meant to pare down inflation. However, it also reinforced the split since wealthy households, flush by years of asset appreciation, could weather the slowdown better than lower income households facing higher mortgage rates and shrinking credit, Zandi said. Cheap money in the 2010s and early pandemic years boosted stocks and home values, but the 2022-and-on tightening squeezed borrowers and renters without necessarily reversing those gains. That means even as inflation has cooled, the damage lingered as asset holders retained their windfall but wage earners bore the brunt of disinflation. “Folks in the top third of the income and wealth distribution are doing well, but the remaining two-thirds of Americans are struggling… they borrowed during the pandemic when rates were low, and now they’re having to pay on that debt at a higher rate,” Zandi said. Though Fed chair Powell has acknowledged today’s K-shaped economy, a restrictive monetary policy is helping keep it in place, Sahm argued, making it unlikely for the two diverging K lines to come any closer together. “We have a Fed that’s still trying to fight inflation that’s been elevated, and part of the tool that they have for fighting inflation is interest rates are elevated, and they’ve been elevated for some time,” Sahm said. “This is the way restrictive monetary policy works: It’s going to hit households hardest who are more financially constrained.” Zandi had a different perspective. He argued that the gap will require policy changes far beyond the Fed’s remit. “The Fed can’t fix the K-shaped economy,” he said. “It can only stabilize prices and employment. The distributional effects are up to fiscal policy.” Instead, Zandi argued for a reversal of some choices made on the fiscal side that would “do no harm” to lower-and-middle-income Americans. “Don’t impose tariffs—that exacerbates inequality,” he said. “Lower- and middle-income households spend a much higher share of their budget on imported products like food, clothing, and cars.” He also criticized President Donald Trump’s “highly restrictive” immigration policy, which he said hurts jobs for industries that rely on immigrants, such as construction, agriculture and manufacturing broadly. Beyond just addressing self-inflicting wounds, Zandi argued that progress depends on both structural and cyclical forces: raising productivity through education, broad-based jobs creation, and ensuring that gains from AI will be equally shared. “If the benefits of AI are distributed more broadly,” he said, “and if job losses are offset by new opportunities, we’ll be fine.” Clear evidence of a two-tiered economy doesn’t mean a recession is imminent, economists said. It does, however, mean that if economic indicators were to take a nosedive, the risk of a recession would increase. “The K-shaped economy, the bifurcated economy, is potentially a more vulnerable economy,” Sahm said. Though layoff rates are still relatively low, if the rate of job cuts increased, there would be many more people in a job market where there’s not much hiring. The labor market today doesn’t look like it did in the job-hopping era of 2023, even when interest rates were still high, Sahm noted. Right now, only the healthcare and hospitality sectors are adding jobs in earnest, creating a concentration of growth not optimal for economic stability. “Anytime you have that, you’re more vulnerable if something bad happens,” Sahm said. © 2025 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice | Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Fresh day fresh layoffs: TripAdvisor to cut 20% staff - here are the departments affected
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/fresh-day-fresh-layoffs-tripadvisor-to-cut-20-staff-here-are-the-departments-affected/articleshow/125162443.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-07T13:47:40Z
Full Content:
Tripadvisor is undergoing a major business overhaul. The travel review giant is merging divisions and cutting about 20% of its global workforce. This move aims to sharpen focus on travel experiences and integrate artificial intelligence across its platform. The company is also pursuing significant cost savings. This strategic shift prepares Tripadvisor for future growth in key travel market segments. Listen to this article in summarized format Unlock AI Briefing and Premium Content (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Porsche recalls over 3,000 vehicles in Canada across several models over safety issues which can lead to crash; check list of affected models and what you can do if yours is on the list Who was Dr. Agron Alija? Physician who died in Canada in a head on crash; how did he die; all you need to know Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Definitions Top Slideshow Top Story Listing Private Companies Top Prime Articles Most Searched IFSC Codes Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: You can’t sit down! Peloton warns 900,000 customers to stop using bikes following reports of seat posts breaking and falling off
URL: https://road.cc/content/news/peloton-warns-900000-customers-stop-using-bikes-316737
Time Published: 2025-11-07T12:59:22Z
Full Content:
Like this site? Help us to make it better. We’re not sure if anyone working at Peloton is a fan of early 60s doo-wop group The Dovells. But if they are, the American band’s 1963 hit ‘You Can’t Sit Down’ would form a rather apt soundtrack for the fitness brand’s offices this week. On Thursday, Peloton issued a voluntary recall notice for almost 900,000 of its Original Series Bike+ models, following reports of a seat post defect which causes it to break and fall off, potentially resulting in, the company says, “injury risk” for users. Peloton has received three reports of the seat posts breaking and detaching during use, and two reports of injuries as a result of falls. Approximately 833,000 models have since been recalled in the US, while 44,800 bikes sold in Canada may also be affected, though Peloton says it is yet to receive any reports of seat posts breaking from its Canadian customers. The American company has warned users affected by the recall to stop using the Original Series Bike+ model immediately, while offering customers a free replacement seat post, which can be self-installed at home. > Peloton set to charge customers £70 for using second-hand bikes, as brand’s sales finally rise by 0.2%, prompting shares to surge months after large-scale redundancies and restructuring The recall applies to Original Series Bike+ models manufactured in Taiwan between December 2019 and July 2022, which were sold in the United States and Canada from January 2020 to April 2025. The bikes were sold by Peloton directly, as well as through third-party retailers such as eBay, Amazon, and Dick’s Sporting Goods, retailing at $2,495. Peloton says the affected models can be identified by the PL02 model number and a serial number beginning with the letter ‘T’, on the label located inside the front fork, behind the front fork, or behind the flywheel. “The integrity of our products and our members’ well-being are our top priorities,” Marcio Oliveira, Peloton’s senior vice president of Global Hardware Operations and Product Safety, said in a statement. “The recall is due to the fact that the Original Series Bike+ seat post assembly can break during use, posing fall and injury hazards to the user. “Peloton has received three reports of seat posts breaking out of approximately 833,000 units sold in the US. Peloton has received no reports of a seat post breaking, out of 44,800 units sold in Canada. “We are taking this opportunity to make replacement seat posts available to all affected Bike Plus users and we encourage them to contact us to receive the redesigned seat post as soon as possible.” > Peloton reports a defect in its bike seats after users report injuries, also announces ninth straight quarter of loss This latest recall comes over two years after Peloton issued an even larger recall notice concerning a faulty seat post, following the indentation of a defect in its Original Series PL-01 model, affecting 2.2 million of its entry-level bikes. That recall, issued in May 2023, came after 35 reports from users that the seat post was vulnerable to breaking at the weld joint, leading to 13 injuries, one customer sustaining a fractured wrist, cuts, and bruises. Last year, we reported that, after a turbulent period characterised by restructuring, a curtailed retailed presence, and a series of layoffs, Peloton saw its first sales increase in nine quarters, beating analysts’ estimates and sending shares surging as much as 41 per cent. That rare bit of positive news came as the American fitness company controversially confirmed that it will start charging customers a £72 “activation fee” when they buy one of their exercise bikes second-hand. In May 2024, at the same time CEO Barry McCarthy stepped down, 15 per cent of Peloton’s workforce (around 400 people) was made redundant in another round of cuts. This latest cull, McCarthy claimed, was necessary to bring the New York-based brand’s spending in line with its revenue, following three years of continuous losses thanks to sales of connected indoor fitness equipment plummeting as Covid-era restrictions eased. We’ve noticed you’re using an ad blocker. If you like road.cc, but you don’t like ads, please consider subscribing to the site to support us directly. As a subscriber you can read road.cc ad-free, from as little as £2.49. If you don’t want to subscribe, please turn your ad blocker off. The revenue from adverts helps to fund our site. If you’ve enjoyed this article, then please consider subscribing to road.cc from as little as £2.49. Our mission is to bring you all the news that’s relevant to you as a cyclist, independent reviews, impartial buying advice and more. Your subscription will help us to do more. After obtaining a PhD, lecturing, and hosting a history podcast at Queen’s University Belfast, Ryan joined road.cc in December 2021 and since then has kept the site’s readers and listeners informed and enthralled (well at least occasionally) on news, the live blog, and the road.cc Podcast. After boarding a wrong bus at the world championships and ruining a good pair of jeans at the cyclocross, he now serves as road.cc’s senior news writer. Before his foray into cycling journalism, he wallowed in the equally pitiless world of academia, where he wrote a book about Victorian politics and droned on about cycling and bikes to classes of bored students (while taking every chance he could get to talk about cycling in print or on the radio). He can be found riding his bike very slowly around the narrow, scenic country lanes of Co. Down. This is just what they need. Company is a mess as it is. What a pain in the a** Two unsavoury characters, but presumably both could be seen as having equivalent levels of "premeditation"? (Given that they felt the knife was... You're preaching to the choir here* but [citation needed] on "EVs aren't cleaner than gasoline-powered cars". How much cleaner depends, and is a... Dumbrunner is having the same utopian thoughts as me this week 'I divorced my husband because of his cycling addiction' One of the positive highlights, and repeated in the Verdict section: "Hold speed well" - definitely written by a journalist, not an engineer; do... I start twitching when there is no space between the number and the unit. I'm fairly sure my dealings with you previously followed some pro-police statement you made where you claimed you'd had positive results from... That's when you sheepishly turn up to a bike shop and claim that your dog ate your shifter I've added British and Americian English options now I'm not happy with that. But I stand by my comment.... Editorial, general: info@road.cc Tech, reviews: tech@road.cc Advertising, commercial: sales@fat.digital View our media pack road.cc's audience Report an advert on road.cc Privacy policy Privacy Manager Subscribe All material © Farrelly Atkinson (F-At) Limited, Unit 7b Green Park Station BA11JB. Tel 01225 588855. © 2008–present unless otherwise stated. Terms and conditions of use.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: American Airlines, Delta and United flight cancellations - check your tickets and will you get refund?
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/american-airlines-delta-and-united-flight-cancellations-check-your-tickets-and-will-you-get-refund/articleshow/125159946.cms
Time Published: 2025-11-07T12:42:23Z
Full Content:
Flight Cancellations today: Major U.S. airlines including Delta, United, and American are canceling flights as the FAA orders reduced air traffic due to a government shutdown and staffing shortages. Passengers are being urged to monitor flights, rebook early, and understand refund rights, as cancellations rise and delays strain the national travel system. Listen to this article in summarized format Unlock AI Briefing and Premium Content (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. Explore More Stories Alberta nursing care workers threaten massive strike, what are they demanding; Alberta Finance minister responds as time runs out; all you need to know Anunay Sood death: What we know about his networth, family, journey, relationships, and career Anunay Sood's ex-fiancée Brinda Sharma: Why did the two influencers call off their engagement? Anunay Sood’s final Instagram post just days before death: ‘Still can't believe I spent the weekend surrounded by legends and dream machines’ Anunay Sood, acclaimed travel creator with millions of followers, dies at 32 Quebec Municipal Election: results for all cities in Quebec, find out list of winners, runner-ups, election plans, and more; Ferrada takes home Montreal post 8-yr Liberal rule Former Liberal now “centrist” Soraya Martinez Ferrada elected Montreal mayor defeating 8 years of left-leaning mayoralty of city; read more to find out why she left the Liberals, “reviewing bike lanes, tackling homelessness” agenda? Sam Hamad loses Quebec City mayoral race to Bruno Marchand; former Liberal minister faces accusations of threats to daughter, etc. find out more on details, history & controversies of Syrian-born Quebecer Canadian ‘Reagan ad expose’ damages Trump-era economics? Carney apologises amid Trump’s brouhaha over 1987 Ronald Reagan ad showcasing tariff as weak strategy; US Prez stubborn ‘NO’ on resuming trade Canada Shooting: Indian origin business tycoon found dead in Abbotsford, B.C., son identifies him as victim of homicide; shocking details emerge amid probe Clayton Kershaw’s wife Ellen gets emotional during his dramatic World Series appearance - WATCH Porsche recalls over 3,000 vehicles in Canada across several models over safety issues which can lead to crash; check list of affected models and what you can do if yours is on the list Who was Dr. Agron Alija? Physician who died in Canada in a head on crash; how did he die; all you need to know Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Physics Wallah set for stock market debut ‘Katta aur Rangdaar’: Modi in Bihar blasts RJD India gets 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains : Key details here Explained: Elon Musk’s $1 Trillion Tesla Payday ‘Don’t leave us, Karoline’: Trump jokes as Hungary’s Orbán tries to recruit Press Secy Trump hints at India visit after praising Modi; MEA says, ‘Nothing to Share’ India flags Pakistan’s nuke record after Trump’s remark PM Modi flags off 4 new Vande Bharat Express trains Guwahati gets world-class Riverfront on Brahmaputra Assam: India’s first Modern River Ferry Terminal in Guwahati Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Commodities Top Story Listing Top Prime Articles Top Definitions Top Slideshow Private Companies Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: They got laid off from the Microsoft country club and dumped into a hellish job market
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-layoffs-workers-say-job-security-dead-2025-11
Time Published: 2025-11-07T10:04:01Z
Full Content:
Every time Jacob publishes a story, you’ll get an alert straight to your inbox! Enter your email By clicking “Sign up”, you agree to receive emails from Business Insider. In addition, you accept Insider’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. After 31 years at Microsoft, Mike Kostersitz never saw it coming. In May, his team met with a senior leader about a new product. "Everybody was happy with the progress," said Kostersitz, then a principal product manager lead working on Microsoft's cloud computing platform Azure. "Everything was peachy." The following morning, he noticed a high-priority virtual meeting had been added to his calendar — and it wasn't good news. "Me and 120 other anonymous faces got told our jobs had been eliminated," said the Washington-based 60-year-old. His manager and two of his direct reports were also among the 6,000 employees affected. In July, roughly 9,000 more were laid off. Previously, in January and February, Microsoft had made nearly 2,000 performance-based cuts. I spoke with seven of the Microsoft workers who lost their jobs over the past 12 months. Microsoft was once known for its "country club" culture, but as Ashley Stewart reported for Business Insider earlier this year, leaders worried the company had gone soft, and it ramped up scrutiny on performance. A Microsoft spokesperson has said that most of this year's cuts were not performance-based but were intended to reduce management layers and streamline operations. Along with Amazon, Meta, and Google, Microsoft is one of many companies — from Silicon Valley to corporate America — that are fueling the Great Flattening. The tenure of the ex-Microsofters I spoke to ranged from a few years to more than three decades. Some said any sense of job security they once had was shattered. Several said they were caught off guard by their layoffs, citing factors like long tenure, no documented performance issues, and Microsoft's position as the world's third-most valuable company. They wondered: If job security is dead at Microsoft, will they find it anywhere else? Kostersitz is one of them. To help with his job search, he said a Microsoft-funded career advisor recommended he "de-age" his résumé by erasing work done in the 1980s and '90s. His LinkedIn profile now only shows professional experience since 2003. The advisor also emphasized that today's job market is an endurance test. "They said it's a game of chicken right now," he said. "The person who has the longer breath and can stick it out longer will get the job." Business Insider has heard from dozens of workers about how corporate strategy shifts, layoffs, and hiring slowdowns have affected their careers. If you have a story to share, contact this reporter via email at jzinkula@businessinsider.com, via Signal at jzinkula.29, or fill out this quick form. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely. Read more on the topic: The experiences of laid-off Microsoft employees are part of a broader shift in corporate America. As Business Insider's Aki Ito has reported, job security was a defining feature of white-collar work during the postwar boom, a period when layoffs and firings were rare. However, globalization — and the overseas competition that accompanied it — gave rise to a new management philosophy focused on cost-cutting, downsizing, and viewing employees as interchangeable. It's not just about flattening. In cuts this year, companies have cited AI — if not directly for taking jobs, then for creating an environment in which companies can operate with leaner staff. It's what workers have been fearing will happen on a large scale as AI continues to improve and become increasingly omnipresent. While Microsoft's culture has evolved over the years, some laid-off employees said they believe the recent cuts show the company has entered a new era — one where avoiding layoffs appears to be a lower priority. The former Microsoft employees, in addition to dozens of other laid-off workers I've spoken with over the past year, told me they are grappling with how to protect their careers and financial well-being after an unexpected chop. Before Eduardo Noriega was laid off by Microsoft in May, he'd been nervous about his job security since 2009, when the company cut about 5,000 workers. "When I saw the layoff, I realized that job security isn't real," said Noriega, who's in his 50s and lives in Seattle. After weighing his options, Noriega concluded that his best chance at financial stability was to build a side business he could rely on if he ever lost his job. By the time he was cut in May, he'd spent nearly a decade building a staffing firm outside work hours — and was earning more from it than from his software engineering job. He said he had been hesitant to quit Microsoft and give up the steady paycheck, but the layoff gave him the push he needed to go all in. "I never dared to quit," he said. "And then Microsoft presented the layoff, and for me, that was like an exit." For other workers across corporate America, the challenge of landing a new role in today's economy has upped the stakes of sudden unemployment. While layoffs across the broader economy remain low by historical standards, white-collar roles have been particularly vulnerable. At the same time, US businesses are hiring at one of the slowest rates since 2013. "If you become unemployed, it's become much harder to find a job," said Laura Ulrich, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab. And because hiring was so much stronger in many industries just a few years ago, she said, the shift may feel especially stark. Ian Carter began working at Microsoft in 2021, and he said the company's layoffs in 2023 and 2024 sent a clear message: His job wasn't safe. "It felt like it didn't matter if you were a great worker or not," said the 33-year-old. "Everybody was at risk." Since being laid off in May from his position as a technical program manager, he has struggled to find a job. He drew on savings for several months to cover expenses and switched to a month-to-month lease on his Redmond, Washington, apartment — crossing his fingers that he'd land something soon. But he never did. In late October, he stored his belongings and moved to Florida to live with his family and save money while continuing his search. "Rent is expensive," he said, "but rent without income coming in is doubly expensive." In May, Joe Friend learned that he and 14 other members of his working group had been laid off. Friend's tenure at Microsoft spanned more than two decades across three stints, but this was the first time he hadn't left by choice. Friend said he believes there's been a culture shift within Microsoft — one that's left employees with less job security than they once had. Some of his concerns extend beyond Microsoft to Big Tech more broadly — which is why he plans to be highly selective about his next role. "I think I'd rather earn $50,000 a year doing something I'm excited about," said the 62-year-old. "It doesn't mean I won't jump back into a job, but it certainly won't be Big Tech." Deborah Hendersen took a different approach. After 14 years at Microsoft, Hendersen, a user researcher in the company's Xbox division, was one of about 9,000 employees laid off in July. "It wasn't so much like watching a car wreck," said the 45-year-old, who lives in Seattle. "It was more like you were in the car, knowing it was going to wreck." The moment she received a mysterious meeting invite that she suspected would bring bad news, she began laying the groundwork for her future. She shared a message internally and on LinkedIn to tell her network that she'd been laid off and to learn who else had been affected. This led to the creation of a Discord chat of more than a dozen affected colleagues, where people shared job opportunities, helped each other prepare for interviews, vented their frustrations, and celebrated their successes. Hendersen also turned to her network to find openings and secure referrals. One of the roles recommended to her was a user experience researcher position at Meta. She received a referral and, in late August, a job offer. Hendersen credited her network — and in particular her laid-off colleagues — for supporting her during this challenging period. "It's so helpful to have the support of other people who are going through it — both the highs and the lows," she said. "Because everybody gets turned down, gets their hopes up, and is just figuring out how to remain sane in a really challenging time." Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is the job market getting worse? As the shutdown continues, this is what we know
URL: https://www.npr.org/2025/11/07/nx-s1-5600734/jobs-labor-market-government-shutdown
Time Published: 2025-11-07T10:00:00Z
Full Content:
Scott Horsley The government shutdown has delayed a report on the October job market. That leaves policymakers looking for other signals about the pace of hiring and firing. Joe Raedle/Getty Images North America hide caption The government shutdown is again making it it hard to answer a critical question: How is the U.S. job market doing? The impasse in Congress over funding has delayed a closely-watched report on the labor market for the second month in a row. Without that official jobs tally, the available signals are mixed. This week, a big payroll processing company reported an uptick in October hiring, for example. But a consulting firm that tracks pink slips noted a big surge in layoff notices. Policymakers typically look to monthly surveys from the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the broadest and most accurate snapshot of the job market. But BLS number-crunchers have been furloughed for more than five weeks, so the September and October jobs reports have not been published. "Due to the government shutdown, this is a challenging time to give an economic outlook speech," Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook told an audience at the Brookings Institution on Monday. "The longer the shutdown lasts, the more data could be disrupted." But Cook insisted she and her colleagues are not "flying blind." They look to private-sector data for signals about hiring and firing, as well as anecdotal reports from a wide range of business contacts. Workers and people looking for work do the same, as they form their own impressions of the job market — and there are signs of concern. A measure of employee sentiment from the job-search website Glassdoor found workers are less confident about the availability of jobs now than they've been in the last three months. Glassdoor users who received a job offer in October were less likely to turn it down than the previous month, suggesting that workers feel they have less leverage in the current market. "October's decline in employee confidence reflects how quickly economic uncertainty can ripple through the workforce," said Glassdoor's chief economist Daniel Zhao. "The government shutdown and mounting layoff fears have clearly shaken employee sentiment." A number of high-profile companies such as Amazon and UPS have announced widespread layoffs in recent weeks, which likely weighs on workers' confidence. The outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas says U.S. businesses announced plans to cut 153,074 jobs last month — the worst October in more than two decades. Tech firms and warehousing companies reported some of the biggest downsizing plans. "Those laid off now are finding it harder to quickly secure new roles, which could further loosen the labor market," says Andy Challenger, chief revenue officer at the firm. State tallies of new unemployment claims have remained relatively stable, however, suggesting that there hasn't been a big spike in overall layoffs yet. On the positive side, ADP, which handles payroll for more than 26 million U.S. employees, says it counted an increase in the number of private-sector employees last month, after two months of decline. "Private employers added jobs in October for the first time since July," says ADP's chief economist Nela Richardson. At the same time, Richardson notes that "hiring was modest relative to what we reported earlier this year." A recruiter speaks with job seekers at a job fair held in Sunrise, Fl., on Sept. 25, 2025. Joe Raedle/Getty Images North America hide caption Official data from the BLS had also shown a slowdown in hiring during the summer, before the government shutdown halted its reporting. Employers added just 22,000 jobs in August — the last month for which official numbers are available. Some of the drop in job growth could be the result of having fewer available workers. Some 10,000 baby boomers retire every day. And the Trump administration's aggressive immigration enforcement likely means there are fewer foreign-born workers in the job market. While the unemployment rate inched up to 4.3% in August, that's still quite low by historical standards. "The slightly rising unemployment rate indicates the labor market is softening, but only modestly so," Cook said Monday. She cautioned however that unemployment rates for young and African American workers jumped more sharply over the summer, which could be a warning sign. The jobless rate for workers aged 20-24 in August was 9.2% while the unemployment rate among African Americans was 7.5%. "This is sometimes called a "two-speed" economy," Cook said, "when the well-off are doing well, while [lower-income families] and vulnerable households are not." Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor
--------------------------------------------------