List of news related to Broadcom AVGO:

Title: Advanced Micro Devices Has High Growth Ahead With A Great Valuation
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/gurufocus/2025/02/04/advanced-micro-devices-has-high-growth-ahead-with-a-great-valuation/
Time Published: 2025-02-04T16:02:36Z
Full Content:
By Oliver Rodzianko Summary AMD (AMD, Financial) is one of the most exciting chip companies in the world at the moment. Due to its strategic focus on AI, including a diversified approach centered on inference as well as training demand, the stock has a robust medium-term future ahead of it. Moreover, my valuation model posits a 35% margin of safety for investment assessed from a full financial breakdown of its earnings capacity and share count over the next three years. Additionally, my December 2027 price target of $290 is the conclusive reason I am highly bullish on AMD stock at its present valuation. Operational & financial analysis In my opinion, there are two semiconductor companies that are both the best-positioned in terms of valuation, financials, and operations to warrant heavy buying of their stock at the moment. However, there is a core difference between the two companies that makes AMD a more stable medium-term investment. I’ve mentioned extensively in previous analyses on Nvidia that it is likely to face a revenue decline in the medium term related to lower spend on AI infrastructure graphics processing units for model training. However, AMD is focusing on inference workloads, a potentially larger and more protracted market. At the moment, AMD's data center segment accounts for about half of its total revenue and grew by 122% year-over-year in Q3 2024. However, Nvidia remains dominant with around a 90% share of the AI graphics processing unit market. Unlike training workloads that require high-end graphics processing units, inference can leverage central processing units, graphics processing units, and even specialized accelerators, providing AMD with multiple avenues to compete as it transitions its focus toward inference to differentiate itself from Nvidia. In addition, while Nvidia has a comprehensive software ecosystem named CUDA, this is more focused on training utilizing high-performance graphics processing units like the H100. Inference workloads will be less reliant on CUDA, so AMD has an opportunity to compete with its open-source ROCm stack and cost-efficient solutions. In the next two to three years, AMD is quite likely to achieve an earnings without non-recurring items compound annual growth rate of over 35% due to profit harvesting amid the upcycle of its AI ramp up and other diversified revenue streams. Moreover, this will likely coincide with around a 20% compound annual growth rate in its revenues over the time period. Such growth forecasts are based on my research and analysis of its current growth trends and market position and validated against consensus estimates from Wall Street. To be precise, I forecast $44.5 billion in annual revenue for Fiscal 2027 (ending December 2027), and earnings without non-recurring items of $8.37 for Fiscal 2027. Valuation analysis For my valuation model, I provide a full breakdown of the company's profit potential and share issuance. The model is capped at three years, in-line with my estimates above due to this likely being the highest-growth period to hold AMD stock in the foreseeable future. The company's basic average shares outstanding have been increasing at an 8.23% compound annual growth rate over the past five years. If this trend slows due to profit harvesting meaning the company is less reliant on equity financing to fund its operations, a compound annual growth rate of 5% in its share count seems plausible over the next three years. The company's current trailing 12-month shares outstanding equals 1.62 billion, so I forecast it will have 1.88 billion trailing 12-month shares outstanding in December 2027. AMD Shares Outstanding Chart As I forecast that the company will have about a 35% trailing 12-month net margin without non-recurring items by December 2027, the company's net income without non-recurring items would be $15.75 billion. Given my forecast that it will have 1.88 billion shares outstanding, this equates to an earnings per share without non-recurring items of $8.37. AMD stock is currently trading at a much cheaper price-to-earning ratio without non-recurring items compared to its 10-year median of just over 50. The current multiple is almost 40. Moreover, this indication of good value is not just due to cyclical profitability dynamics as the company's price-to-sales ratio of nearly 8 is only moderately higher than its 10-year median of 5.45, despite a three-year revenue growth rate of 19.9% compared to 2.5% as a 10-year median. I therefore consider AMD very reasonably valued right now. Indeed, a terminal multiple of 35 appears both consistent with historical valuations, industry norms (i.e. compared to Nvidia), and conservative given its robust growth horizon with no indication of a medium-term revenue decline for now. AMD and Nvidia PS Ratio Chart The result of my model is a fair December 2027 price target for AMD stock of $290, indicating approximately a three-year compound annual growth rate of over 35%. AMD's weighted average cost of capital is 16.83%, composed of 98.6% equity (costing 17.02%) and 1.4% debt (costing 3.75% pre-tax, 3.75% post-tax due to a 0% effective tax rate). When discounting my December 2027 price target back to the present day over three years using the company's weighted average cost of capital as my discount rate, the implied intrinsic value is $180. As the stock is currently trading at $115, the implied margin of safety in my model is 35%. Risk analysis AMD is not the only company competing in the inference market and attempting to disrupt Nvidia's moat in AI infrastructure. Broadcom (AVGO, Financial) and Marvell (MRVL, Financial) are aggressively entering the AI accelerator market, with Broadcom showing particular promise with potentially $90 billion in AI-related revenue over the next three years. Moreover, there are niche players like Cerebras and Groq which are poised to dominate portions of use-case specific inference through targeting lower latency and higher throughput with tailored chips. It is also worth considering that though we have Trump in the White House this year for a four year term, likely providing more geopolitical resilience through stronger leadership, tensions between the East and West are still high, especially surrounding Taiwan. If further hot wars break out or trade tensions escalate, supply chains and revenue streams could be disrupted. In a worst-case scenario of a market crash, I believe it prudent for investors to have a robust cash position at this time to mitigate risk and allow themselves to capitalize shrewdly on any major undervaluations that occur. This is the strategy being adopted by Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A) (BRK.B), and it appears a shrewd model to emulate. The greatest risk operationally and financially is that AMD has recently heavily concentrated its resources on AI. I do not consider this a bad thing, given that the AI industry is the highest-growth economic boom most people know of. However, it comes with risks for AMD shareholders if the company falls short of expectations. This could manifest if there is lumpiness in AI spending as enterprises optimize their budgets after initial build-outs, or if customers encounter any errors with its central processing units, graphics processing units, or AI accelerators, as two key examples. Conclusion I currently have a significant portion of my value trading portfolio in Nvidia shares, and I'm considering adding AMD shares at a higher or equal weight. I expect I will hold my AMD shares for longer than my Nvidia shares, because Nvidia is showing signs of significantly slower growth on the horizon and then, very likely, at least a minor revenue contraction. Therefore, I am only planning on holding Nvidia stock for about a year, but will likely hold my AMD position for two years or more. As my valuation model indicates, holding AMD stock for three years could result in a 35% compound annual growth rate, making it a top investment to consider at this time. One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service. We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines. Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Jim Cramer’s Broadcom (AVGO) Warning: ‘Anything Can Happen!’
URL: https://consent.yahoo.com/v2/collectConsent?sessionId=1_cc-session_bbba2baf-b056-4672-a402-ed37fdfe3b34
Time Published: 2025-02-02T19:03:16Z
Description: None
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 3 High-Yield Closed End Funds To Buy Tech Stocks For Less
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/brettowens/2025/02/02/3-high-yield-closed-end-funds-to-buy-tech-stocks-for-less/
Time Published: 2025-02-02T15:41:00Z
Full Content:
Photo taken in Kuching, Malaysia This week’s AI panic has opened up a rare bargain window in big tech names that were disposed of with the DeepSeek bathwater. Nosebleed Nvidia (NVDA) is a “stay away.” But there are tech dividends worth exploring, with some paying us up to 13% a year. Investors have been herded into the same AI and technology names that have been at the forefront for years, and—shockingly—those shares have largely been priced for perfection. Chinese AI upstart DeepSeek has shown that deep pockets are not needed to build smart AI models. This should have come as no surprise, as China is home to many smart technologists. Alas, the NVDA fanboys were stunned and sold immediately. These panics happen most often when specific stocks are overpriced. The tech sector has long been one of the market’s priciest, trading at forward P/Es last seen before the 2022 bear market—which were only previously matched in 1999-2004 as the dot-com bubble expanded and burst! Forward P/E Ratios This recent mini-dip has not made the sector-at-large cheap by any means. Instead we should consider lesser-known closed-end funds (CEFs), which allow us to buy many of these same bleeding-edge stocks for less than they’re actually worth. Better still? They allow us to own them differently, in a way that emphasizes big regular distributions, sometimes as frequently as every month. In the case of these three tech-focused CEFs, that’s roughly 6% to 13% in annual distributions. Columbia Seligman Premium Technology Growth Fund (STK)Distribution Rate: 5.8% If you didn’t look too closely, it’d be easy to mistake Columbia Seligman Premium Technology Growth Fund (STK) with a traditional mutual fund. A management team featuring Paul Wick, with a whopping 30 years of tech-sector experience under his belt, selects stocks based on “rigorous bottom-up fundamental analysis and valuation analysis, using a growth-at-a-reasonable-price (GARP) style to aim for more consistent performance and lower risk than its peers.” The portfolio is a slim 55 stocks—70% of them are from within the technology sector, and the rest are “tech-esque” firms from the communication services, industrial, consumer discretionary and financial sectors. The GARP strategy shows, too, with the portfolio boasting P/E, P/B, and P/S ratios that are significantly cheaper than the category average. And unlike many CEFs that use debt leverage to add some oomph to their picks, STK doesn’t use a dime of it—the assets they have are the assets they’re putting to work. But you can’t own stocks like Apple (AAPL), Broadcom (AVGO) and Lam Research (LRCX) and magically spout out a 6% yield. In STK’s case, that distribution rate is a mix of income, return of capital, and capital gains, with some of that generated by a covered call options strategy. But you get what you might expect from this Columbia CEF’s covered call strategy: On the one hand, it limits upside (STK trails the S&P 500’s technology sector by a decent measure over the same time frame), but on the other, you’re also getting a little better performance during downswings, market-beating performance, and substantial quarterly distributions. However, while STK’s portfolio is cheaper than your average tech fund, we’re not getting much of a deal on the fund itself—it trades at just a 1% discount to NAV. That’s better than the 3% premium investors have paid on average over the past five years, but hardly a steal. BlackRock Innovation and Growth Term Trust (BIGZ)Distribution Rate: 13.0% I recently highlighted this fund in a look at the market’s highest-yielding CEFs. The BlackRock Innovation and Growth Term Trust (BIGZ) hones in on “innovative” mid- and small-cap companies that management determines have better-than-average earnings growth potential. Current top holdings include Taser maker Axon Enterprise (AXON) and tech electrical infrastructure firm Vertiv (VRT), but most noteworthy is that BIGZ can also own private investments you can’t own elsewhere (which it folds under cryptic names such as “Project Picasso”). BIGZ does use leverage, but minimally—debt leverage is at less than 2% right now. Instead, this BlackRock CEF’s big yield comes courtesy of covered calls. Distributions have historically been entirely made of return of capital. And the fund actually mandates these distributions—its managed distribution plan requires BIGZ to dole out 12% of its 12-month average NAV through at least September 2025. My colleague, CEF expert Michael Foster, wrote just yesterday that BIGZ was subject to a discount management program where the fund will offer to repurchase shares if its discount to NAV exceeds a certain threshold. However, amid a battle with activist investor Saba Capital Management, the company’s board of trustees has extended new tender offers to buy back 50% of BIGZ’s shares at 99.5% of NAV. This is an aggressive move that could help with the fund’s persistent discount, which has narrowed to roughly 6%. That’s certainly helpful—but it’s a wide-open question as to whether that will be enough to make up for what has been an extremely disappointing strategy so far. Neuberger Berman Next Generation Connectivity Fund (NBXG)Distribution Rate: 9.2% Thematic funds are typically found in ETF-land, but the Neuberger Berman Next Generation Connectivity Fund (NBXG) is a compelling rarity among CEFs. NBXG holds stocks that fund management believes to “demonstrate significant growth potential from the development, advancement, use or sale of products, processes or services related to the fifth generation mobile network and future generations of mobile network connectivity and technology.” But a quick look at the portfolio shows that, at least as of right now, NBXG is a de facto AI play, too. Nvidia (NVDA). Taiwan Semiconductor (TSM). Amazon (AMZN). Meta Platforms (META). These are just some of the top holdings that have their hand in the AI cookie jar. More broadly speaking, the portfolio is tech-heavy, with some telecoms, consumer discretionary, and other sectors sprinkled in. NBXG, like BIGZ, offers something that most mutual funds and ETFs don’t: exposure to private companies, which make up about 13% of assets right now. And also like both the other CEFs here, a covered-call strategy helps keep an outstanding distribution afloat. Performance? Well, Neuberger Berman’s CEF mirrors the previous two in that it has trailed the tech sector since inception. However, this strategy has shown a lot of promise over the past year, actually exceeding the XLK by an impressive clip. What makes this all the more alluring is that you can buy NBXG’s assets for 87 cents on the dollar. Brett Owens is Chief Investment Strategist for Contrarian Outlook. For more great income ideas, get your free copy his latest special report: Your Early Retirement Portfolio: Huge Dividends—Every Month—Forever. Disclosure: none One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service. We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines. Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 3 excellent ASX ETFs to buy in February
URL: https://www.fool.com.au/2025/02/02/3-excellent-asx-etfs-to-buy-in-february/
Time Published: 2025-02-01T21:33:00Z
Description: Let's see what funds could be top picks for investors this month.
The post 3 excellent ASX ETFs to buy in February appeared first on The Motley Fool Australia.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) the Most Promising Dividend Stock According to Hedge Funds?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/broadcom-inc-avgo-most-promising-201236579.html
Time Published: 2025-02-01T20:12:36Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. We recently compiled a list of the 10 Most Promising Dividend Stocks According to Hedge Funds. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) stands against the other dividend stocks. During a time of great excitement about AI-driven capital gains, it's crucial to remember that dividends have consistently played a vital role in total returns. Over the long term, dividends become even more significant. Looking back at the past few decades, approximately 55% of market returns from 1987 to the end of 2023 have come from reinvested dividends. Dividends are a long-term investment strategy, and the benefits take time to materialize. For example, a dollar invested in the broader market in 1927 without reinvesting dividends would be worth $243 today, but if dividends were reinvested, that same dollar would be worth $3,737. Fortunately, you don’t need a century to see the potential growth in dividend stocks, as the outlook for the near future is improving. According to a report by AGF Investments, in the second half of 2024, global monetary easing has led to lower bond yields, making fixed income less attractive compared to dividend-paying stocks. In addition, companies with high dividend payouts often have more leverage, and lower bond yields help them manage interest expenses, boosting their overall financial performance, which in turn would contribute to dividend growth. Also read: 8 Unstoppable Dividend Stocks to Invest in According to a report by J.P. Morgan, global equities are on the brink of a significant period of dividend growth, not just due to a cyclical rise in payouts but also because of a more permanent increase in dividend momentum. Over the past two decades, global dividends per share have grown at an annual rate of 5.6%, but J.P. Morgan’s analysts now predict this rate will accelerate to 7.6% in the future. The main factor driving this increased dividend growth is the low starting point for payout ratios (dividends relative to earnings). In 2020, during the pandemic, an unusual number of companies reduced their dividends. In fact, global dividends dropped by 12%, a sharper decline than during the Global Financial Crisis. This response was reasonable given the uncertain environment. Since then, equity markets have rebounded strongly, with earnings surging, particularly from Big Tech and, more recently, AI. Dividends, typically set by cautious boards, tend to lag behind earnings during these surges. As a result, payout ratios are now close to 25-year lows, meaning companies are paying out less than historical averages, as reported by J.P. Morgan. Simply returning to more typical payout levels could result in an additional 2% growth annually over the next five years. This recovery is already taking shape, as global dividend growth has outpaced earnings growth in seven of the past eight quarters. Investors and analysts both support companies that have raised their payouts. Companies that consistently raise their dividends typically manage economic downturns better because they have strong business models, solid balance sheets, and promising earnings potential. These qualities make them attractive to investors, and historical data shows that the market tends to reward them. Stocks of companies that increase dividends often outperform the broader market while experiencing lower volatility. According to a report by AGF Investments, the companies in the broader market that grew their dividend between January 1990 and August 2024 grew by 12.1%, compared with an 11% return of companies that pay no dividends and a 10.8% return of dividend cutters. With market conditions improving, it's not surprising that an increasing number of companies are beginning to pay dividends. Our Methodology: To compile this article, we first scanned a list of stocks known for their consistent dividend track records and sustained shareholder payouts over an extended period. This group reflects stability and long-term performance in dividend payouts. From this list, we picked 10 companies with the highest number of hedge fund investors, according to Insider Monkey's database of Q3 2024. The stocks are ranked in ascending order of the number of hedge funds having stakes in them. Why are we interested in the stocks that hedge funds pile into? The reason is simple: our research has shown that we can outperform the market by imitating the top stock picks of the best hedge funds. Our quarterly newsletter’s strategy selects 14 small-cap and large-cap stocks every quarter and has returned 275% since May 2014, beating its benchmark by 150 percentage points. (see more details here). A technician working at a magnified microscope, developing a new integrated circuit. Number of Hedge Fund Holders: 128 Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) is an American multinational semiconductor company that offers a wide range of semiconductor and infrastructure software products. In its Q4 2024, the company reported revenue of $14.05 billion, which showed a significant 51% growth from the same period last year. Semiconductor revenue reached an all-time high of $30.1 billion, with AI revenue soaring by 220% compared to the previous year, totaling $12.2 billion. This exceptional growth was driven by the company’s cutting-edge AI XPUs and Ethernet networking solutions. For fiscal year 2024, adjusted EBITDA increased by 37% year-over-year, hitting a record $31.9 billion. Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) is drawing considerable attention from investors thanks to its pivotal role in powering products in various sectors, including data centers and smartphones. Its technology supports more than 99% of internet traffic, underscoring its leadership in networking. Furthermore, the company’s acquisition of VMware, a cloud virtualization firm, a year ago has bolstered its market position. VMware's operating margin has now reached 70%, and the company is on pace to surpass its goal of generating over $8.5 billion in adjusted EBITDA within three years. Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) leveraged its robust cash reserves to boost its dividend. In the most recent quarter, the company generated $5.6 billion in operating cash flow and $5.48 billion in free cash flow, accounting for 39% of its total revenue. With 14 consecutive years of dividend growth, Broadcom is considered one of the most promising dividend stocks. The company's per-share dividend comes in at $0.59 every quarter for a dividend yield of 1.07%, as of January 30. Overall AVGO ranks 1st on our list of the most promising dividend stocks according to hedge funds. While we acknowledge the potential for AVGO as an investment, our conviction lies in the belief that some AI stocks hold greater promise for delivering higher returns and doing so within a shorter time frame. If you are looking for an AI stock that is more promising than AVGO but that trades at less than 5 times its earnings, check out our report about the cheapest AI stock. READ NEXT: 20 Best AI Stock To Buy Now and Complete List of 59 AI Companies Under $2 Billion in Market Cap Disclosure: None. This article is originally published at Insider Monkey. Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------