List of news related to Blackrock:

Title: Fidelity's SpaceX 'flipping' rule sounds harsh — but at 15 days it's a shorter lock than Robinhood or SoFi
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/fidelitys-spacex-flipping-rule-sounds-171500059.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T17:15:00Z
Description: SpaceX named five brokers as direct routes to its IPO, and Fidelity sets the shortest selling window of them all — 15 days. Here's how they all stack up.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Transcript: Chris Davis of Davis Funds
URL: https://ritholtz.com/2026/06/transcript-chris-davis-2/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T16:30:45Z
Full Content:
June 8, 2026 12:30pm by Barry Ritholtz The transcript from this week’s MiB: Beating the S&P For Generations with Chris Davis of Davis Funds, is below. You can stream and download our full conversation, including any podcast extras, on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, YouTube (video), YouTube (audio), and Bloomberg. All of our earlier podcasts on your favorite pod hosts can be found here. ~~~ Masters in Business · Bloomberg Radio Barry Ritholtz in conversation with Chris Davis, Chairman & Portfolio Manager, Davis Advisors [00:00:02] Announcer: Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio News. This is Masters in Business with Barry Ritholtz on Bloomberg Radio. [00:00:17] Barry Ritholtz: This week on the podcast. Strap yourself in for another banger. Chris Davis chews up the scenery. He is the portfolio manager of Davis Advisors. They’ve been kicking the S&P’s butt for the past, I don’t know, since 1969. $20 billion in client assets. Fascinating conversation. Charlie Munger was his mentor. He sits on the board of Koch and on Berkshire Hathaway. I thought this conversation was spectacular. I think you will also, with no further ado, my sit down with Chris Davis. [00:00:53] Chris Davis: It’s so always good to be with you. Thank you so much. [00:00:56] Barry Ritholtz: So before we get into your career — master’s degree with honors from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland — like how did that come about? [00:01:08] Chris Davis: Well, one of the things that confuses people is I actually don’t have an undergraduate degree. I only have the master’s degree. Wait, how — I sort of skipped that middle step. [00:01:18] Barry Ritholtz: So did you go to an undergraduate college? [00:01:21] Chris Davis: Well, what happened is I went to St. Andrews. I had originally only intended to go for a year. I wanted to be a veterinarian. That’s a long side story. And I had worked at the Bronx Zoo. I had worked at the — [00:01:33] Barry Ritholtz: Wait, wait, wait — [00:01:33] Chris Davis: Humane Society. [00:01:34] Barry Ritholtz: So the original plan wasn’t “dad’s a fund manager, grandfather’s a fund manager, I guess I’m gonna go into the family business.” That was not the — [00:01:44] Chris Davis: Plan. Definitely not. But I give both of them credit. They felt that all of their kids should be financially literate. And so every kid worked for my father or for my grandfather at some point and learned, because they just felt like, look, you’ll have money over time. It’s not taught in schools, just the basic fundamentals of investing. And God help you, if you turn on the TV, you’re gonna get a totally distorted view of what investing is. [00:02:15] Barry Ritholtz: Fire hose of nonsense. [00:02:17] Chris Davis: Exactly. And so we all had this grounding. But for example, my smartest sibling without question is my younger sister, but she’s a small town doctor. But boy, does she understand investing. She’s very thoughtful in how she’s managed her financial affairs. So we owed that route, but we all thought we were going different paths. She was interested in medicine. I was interested in veterinary medicine. And so I was gonna go to Cornell, and I was very young for my high school class, and I was very late hitting puberty. I mean, I was five feet tall my senior year in high school. That’s when I broke five feet. So you can imagine what this looked like, but my scores and grades were okay. And so Cornell took me into their pre-vet program, but the woman that ran it said, look, this is a seven year program, it’s intense. Why don’t you take a year off, like a gap year? So I proposed that to my father. He said, we don’t do that in our family. You could go study, but there’s no year off, like to go ski or find yourself. [00:03:27] Barry Ritholtz: Did you skip a grade, or — like me — were you born in October, November, December, so you’re young relative to the rest of — [00:03:33] Chris Davis: No, I had skipped a grade sort of early because, bizarrely — nobody in my family believes this now — but I didn’t talk until quite late. So they had sort of, and then when I started talking, they jumped me ahead — [00:03:47] Barry Ritholtz: Making up for — [00:03:48] Chris Davis: Exactly. It never stopped since then. But anyway, so I had this year, and it was the first year that the University of St. Andrews was interested in taking direct applications from students where they dropped the requirement to have A levels or O levels, the British entry exams, mostly because they wanted the Yankee dollar. Of course, you’ve gotta remember Thatcher had just become prime minister. She was slashing the public support of the Scottish universities. So I applied. There were, I think, eight of us Americans that came in that first year. And they had a program where after two years you could apply into the honors program, which would allow you to concentrate on just one subject. And I ended up picking two. But needless to say — [00:04:41] Barry Ritholtz: What were the — [00:04:42] Chris Davis: Two? It was philosophy and theology. [00:04:44] Barry Ritholtz: Very — [00:04:45] Chris Davis: Interesting. I picked them my freshman year thinking, well, when I go back to Cornell, I’m gonna be filled up with organic chemistry and biology and anatomy and so on. So I may as well pick things that I’ll never get to study again. So I picked things like medieval history, philosophy, theology, and — [00:05:03] Barry Ritholtz: I love that. That’s something I always, in hindsight, wish I did. I started out physics and math and switched to political science and philosophy. So I got to study some stuff that was fun. But medieval history sounds like that would be a delightful semester. [00:05:22] Chris Davis: You used the perfect word — fun. I mean, I became a good student in high school. I wasn’t a good student before. In fact, recently I found my eighth grade final report card. I went to a school here in New York, and it was a pretty strict, wear-a-uniform sort of boys school. And the headmaster would review each report card before it went to the parents and then make a comment on the bottom. And the headmaster’s comment on my final elementary school report card was: “Yet another semester of squandered potential.” [00:05:57] Barry Ritholtz: Not living up to his potential. That’s — [00:06:00] Chris Davis: Oh my god, my — [00:06:00] Barry Ritholtz: That’s a classic. [00:06:01] Chris Davis: My children found that — my mother gave it to my children, which was a big problem. You can imagine. But anyway, so I thought I’ll just be in Scotland for a year. I picked subjects I would never study again. They were so fun. It was just — [00:06:15] Barry Ritholtz: Especially in Scotland, studying medieval history. [00:06:18] Chris Davis: A medieval university, where Hume had been a professor. I mean, it was just amazing. And of course it’s also a Presbyterian seminary — St. Mary’s, which is one of the colleges there. So I thought, well — and it wasn’t that I was a deeply faithful sort of person. I more thought of theology from the point of view of: people organize their lives around religion. People die for it. I should study this. But there was also a secondary reason I was interested, which is, if you look at communities that have a religious institution at their center — whether they’re rural, urban, suburban — almost all outcomes are better. Intact families, crime rates, graduation rates, all of these sorts of statistics tend to go better. So to me, I was lucky that I never had one of those childhoods where it was beaten into me or something. So it was more this curiosity about how it seemed to serve communities to have a shared value system. Anyway, I picked those subjects, I applied into this honors program, so I was able to get the master’s at the end, but there was no undergraduate degree along the way. [00:07:34] Barry Ritholtz: And there was no going back to Cornell to become a vet. Although the ardor for that faded. [00:07:40] Chris Davis: Although because I deferred my admission freshman year, I still get mailings from their alumni department because I matriculated, but then deferred. And I’d like to think the development department has nothing to do with them sending me these mailings. But I lived on a sheep farm in Scotland, and of course that was when I realized I was confusing loving animals with wanting to be a vet. And those are very different things. [00:08:06] Barry Ritholtz: Yeah. Very much so. We used to foster dogs and get them adopted. And anytime I meet someone who’s like, “oh, I really don’t care for dogs,” it’s like — [00:08:19] Chris Davis: Oh, that’s a big X. Done. We weren’t allowed to have dogs when I was a kid, but I grew up right in the city, on East 84th Street. But my parents, from the time I was in maybe third grade or so — probably eight or nine years old, something like that — they said I could walk dogs, I could be a dog walker, provided I didn’t cross any streets. So I’d put up a notice in the elevator in our building if anybody needed their dog walked. And then I would just walk the dogs around the block before school and after school. I can still remember the name of every dog I walked. Which is amazing. And I loved it. And of course it actually became seed capital, which is unexpected. But the reason was, I could probably charge 50 cents a walk back then. So it was nothing. But I got to be with dogs and I enjoyed it. It was like a paper route. [00:09:11] Barry Ritholtz: And you’re running a small business. I had a paper route, and it was just so formative. [00:09:16] Chris Davis: So formative. And this was like a paper route for city kids, because you couldn’t have a paper route in New York. But then an amazing thing happened. New York City, around — it’d have to be around 1977 or ’78 — passed the pooper scooper — [00:09:32] Barry Ritholtz: Law, I remember. [00:09:33] Chris Davis: And everything changed, because people had these dogs and nobody even knew what to do. Nobody had ever imagined cleaning up after a dog. There were all sorts of inventions — [00:09:47] Barry Ritholtz: Just the bag. It’s not that complicated. [00:09:49] Chris Davis: But people didn’t — people were so grossed out, they had to carry shovels with them. [00:09:52] Barry Ritholtz: You change the diaper on the baby — this is just processed food. There’s no big deal. [00:09:58] Chris Davis: Well, for me, it meant that my rates could go from 50 cents to $5, and people were glad to pay it. And instead of one or two dogs, I had four or five. It was real money. Because what it meant was I was suddenly making $50 a week in — [00:10:16] Barry Ritholtz: As a 10-year-old. That’s good. [00:10:17] Chris Davis: That’s good. And so you start thinking about — holy cow, I’m making $250 a month, I’m making thousands of dollars a year. And it was just fantastic. So I’ve loved dogs ever since. [00:10:32] Barry Ritholtz: So let’s talk a little bit about the early days of the career. You start as an accountant at State Street Bank and ultimately end up as an unglamorous research analyst at Tanaka Capital Management. These are very much bottom rung on the Wall Street ladder. What’d you learn in those days? [00:10:53] Chris Davis: Well, it wasn’t really my first job. My first job was, I became a pastoral assistant at the American Cathedral in Paris. So I moved from rural Scotland to Paris. Well, that was like landing in Oz. Honest to God, my eyes lit up. But again, in the same way that living on the sheep farm convinced me I was confusing loving animals with wanting to be a vet, working for the American Cathedral convinced me I was confusing loving people with wanting to be a priest or something. So I moved from there to Boston and I thought about teaching. I actually even applied to the CIA, because I was very interested in research and international affairs. I’d lived abroad five years then. And I thought it would be an amazing thing to be the greatest expert on, let’s say, Czechoslovakia — to learn the language, the history, the people, the economics, the business, the military, the topography. And so I didn’t wanna be a spy, but I wanted to be an analyst. And the CIA wisely turned me down, having briefly had a stint in the Workers’ Revolutionary Party. And — [00:12:09] Barry Ritholtz: So they looked at your history and said, this guy’s — [00:12:12] Chris Davis: They were like, this needs to ripen a little more. [00:12:15] Barry Ritholtz: We don’t know if you have the ethical malleability that we’re looking for. [00:12:19] Chris Davis: But so I started thinking about the summers that I had spent working with my dad and my grandfather, both of whom loved their jobs. They loved investing, they loved their career. And of course that was infectious. Even as kids, I thought the idea of investing was so interesting, because they didn’t highlight the math to begin with. They highlighted the stories, the people, the ideas. But I realized that even though I’d had this study of the idea of businesses being made up of people and ideas, I had no grounding in the rigor of it. And so what I like to say is, my father and grandfather let us live in a foreign country — like live in France for some time, hear French spoken, see this new culture — before we had to learn the grammar and read the textbooks and so on. So they got the order right for setting the hook of curiosity. But I knew enough to know that I couldn’t go into investing without a real grounding. And of course, a bank is perfect. I interviewed a lot of places. George Putnam himself turned me down for a job at Putnam. So I had a lot of rejects before. And State Street Bank had a program for entry level accountants. They had a wonderful training program. I had an operation center in Quincy, Massachusetts, and I would take the red line down there, and I could do my day job, but they would also pay for any schooling you wanted. They had something called the State Street Institute, and you could take courses in anything to do with economics, accounting, business. And — you took advantage of that? — I took advantage of that, although I will say I was fooled by one course. They had a course in their catalog that was called “The Rules of Rhythmic Touch.” Now I — [00:14:28] Barry Ritholtz: Thought that sounds like massage. That — [00:14:30] Chris Davis: Sounds pretty good, right? I circled that one in the little course catalog. It was only a two-night course, and I showed up, and it was how to use a 10-key punch tape calculator without looking at your hands. So when you’re summing up a column — a skill for an accountant. It’s the rules of rhythmic touch. And I would say, if you put one on this table now, I would bet you a large sum of money I could run a column of numbers faster than you. [00:15:01] Barry Ritholtz: I’m gonna defer on that one. [00:15:03] Chris Davis: So that’s how I got the grounding there. Graham Tanaka was somebody I had met during my summer jobs. He was a very talented analyst at Fiduciary Trust. He’d been at JP Morgan before, and we’d stayed in touch. And I learned that he was hanging out his own shingle and starting his own firm. He’s Japanese American, really a very driven, talented guy. And he said he wanted an apprentice — I would be his first hire and we would go from there. And that was a terrific experience. [00:15:44] Barry Ritholtz: How long did you stay at Tanaka? [00:15:46] Chris Davis: I stayed there about two years. Because what happened after the first stretch is, my grandfather, who I was close with — when I went to work for Tanaka, my grandfather opened up an account at Tanaka, because he had big investments in Japanese firms. He had a lot of admiration for Japanese culture and values. And he admired — this is — [00:16:13] Barry Ritholtz: Late seventies, early eighties. [00:16:15] Chris Davis: This was late eighties now. So we’re probably in ’89, something like ’88. But Graham was a growth investor primarily in the US, and he just happened to have Japanese heritage. So my grandfather opened an account, and as the time there progressed, my grandfather was worried about his health failing. He loved the business, and he wanted to die at his desk. And so he started asking if I would come in on the weekends and go through his accounts with him. And Graham, of course, was so respectful of that. So it was a very gradual transition out. There wasn’t an end date of my time with Graham so much as there was a start date of my time working with my dad and grandfather. [00:17:04] Barry Ritholtz: So your father launched Davis Advisors in 1969. And your grandfather was still running his Davis investing shop in parallel. Did they ever end up merging? What happened when you decided, all right, it’s time? [00:17:25] Chris Davis: Well, my father was my grandfather’s only son. And as often happens, they had a very complicated relationship, I’m sure. And so they never worked together. My father grew up with this famous name, because the numbers were right in the beginning. It was a hundred thousand dollars that he borrowed from his wife’s family. It was 800 million when he died. And it was 2.2 billion when his wife died. And she was the successor trustee. And then it all went to charity after that. He didn’t believe in inheritance, but it was in trust for her. And she lived to be 106. Although, I will tell you, I managed her account, and in 2008, of course, I had to go see her. And we had a lot of financial stocks, and we had a really bad mark at the bottom, probably down 40 or 50%. And I went to see her in Florida, and I said, grand, I just want you to know the businesses are sound, we took some body blows, but in the long run it’s going to be fine. And she said, “You idiot, I’m 98 years old. What do I care?” She said, “I don’t buy green bananas. And you’re telling me I’m down 50%? Go get back to work.” So she teased me, because of course she lived long enough to see it all come back. And she would always tease me about not buying green bananas, and my telling her she just had to have a little bit of a longer term perspective. But anyway, my grandfather built his firm, which was called Shelby Cullom Davis & Company. My father built his, which in the beginning was called Davis, Palmer and Biggs. And then the New York Venture Fund was a fund managed by Davis, Palmer and Biggs. And when I was working at Tanaka, I went to a meeting — it was Chubb Insurance, an analyst day sort of thing. And there weren’t that many analysts then, so it was held around a big boardroom table. And the CEO was Dean O’Hare. And I looked around the table, and both my father and grandfather were at the same meeting by chance. And I thought, this seems a little nuts. And so I spoke to them both, because I was very close with them both. One of the things my father was very clear on is, he wanted out at age 60. He said, hard stop. And here was my grandfather at the time, and he was probably in his late eighties, early eighties then. And he said, I wanna die at my desk. I mean, he was the one that called investing “the best game in town.” He would say, this is the best game in town. He loved his firm — and now his firm, most of it was his own capital. So in a way he was just managing his own, but he loved being in the flow. In a way, my grandfather loved being a great man. He had served as an ambassador. He was a co-founder of the Heritage Foundation, chairman for a long time, had very conservative political views — although that was a slightly different organization, very different 25 years ago than it is now. But he was a passionate Reagan Republican, sort of a Hoover Institute Republican. And his namesake, Shelby Cullom, was a Republican senator and governor under Lincoln. So it was in him deep. And so he loved the game, and it wouldn’t have occurred to him to stop working. My father loved investing, but he did not like the responsibility of the business. He didn’t like boards and clients and employees. That was not his thing. He was a much more — wonderful human being, but very different than my grandfather. So he wanted out before he turned 60, my grandfather wanted to die at his desk. And I thought, well, here I am. I don’t know what I am at the time, 26 or something. And I was like, here’s a great idea: why don’t we merge the companies, and then I’ll come in, and I’ll learn from both of you. And I was an S&L and a banking analyst then. And of course this was going right into the teeth of the S&L crisis. So it was an exciting time to invest. And then we’ll figure out a way for the three of us to do this. [00:22:15] Barry Ritholtz: And how long did it take for that to all come together? [00:22:18] Chris Davis: My father turned 60 in 1997, 1998, somewhere like that. And my grandfather died — [00:22:29] Barry Ritholtz: He’s 86, 88 — [00:22:32] Chris Davis: Something like that. Don’t quiz me. My grandfather died in, let’s see, 1994. So I’d have to say he was 86 or 87 when he died. And so, in a way, the timing all sort of overlapped beautifully. My grandfather worked almost to the end. My father helped coach me through that transition, and then he walked out the door in 1998. And that was that. He’s been an incredible mentor. He’s always available to talk, but as he said, I’m here to give you advice, I’m not giving any orders. And he didn’t sit on our boards. He just walked out, and just like my grandfather, started giving his money away. He created and oversees the largest international scholarship program on Earth. [00:23:34] Barry Ritholtz: And I know there’s a foundation. I haven’t read the book, but there’s John Rothchild, who was, I think, Peter Lynch’s co-author. He’s a lovely man. “The Davis Dynasty.” How odd is it to have — hey, the story, the game isn’t over, and you are writing this book. How odd is it to be part of a book like that? [00:24:02] Chris Davis: Well, first, it’s probably a book read by dozens of people nationwide. Because remember, it is the riveting biography of the Dean of Insurance Stocks. So that’s a pretty narrow pool. Not — [00:24:15] Barry Ritholtz: Not a hot seller, you’re saying. [00:24:17] Chris Davis: And I do think I experienced the writing of that book as sort of terrifying. [00:24:28] Barry Ritholtz: A lot to live up to. It was a lot — [00:24:30] Chris Davis: Your dad and your grandfather. It was a lot to live up to. Sure. And I will say it’s something that I’m just profoundly grateful to my dad for — well, really to both of them. But my dad is a very humble person. And in that book, it is 90% about my grandfather, and my dad was sort of what I would call a quiet doer. He loved investing, he loved research, but he was very low profile. And so his view was very much that, despite the graphic title, this is really a book about his father. And I think that’s true. In fact, at our firm, we made slimmed-down versions of that book and called it “The Davis Discipline” instead, which was much more consistent with our view of life. Because “dynasty” implies dynastic wealth, it implies inheritance — [00:25:32] Barry Ritholtz: And there’s no inheritance. [00:25:33] Chris Davis: There’s none of that. Which — [00:25:35] Barry Ritholtz: I would imagine people would be surprised to learn. [00:25:39] Chris Davis: Yeah. And it’s funny, it’s not something I’m quite as fanatic about. [00:25:46] Barry Ritholtz: Well, Warren Buffett is a big believer in — hey, you should give your kids enough. I know I’m gonna mangle this — give them enough money so they could do anything, but not so much money that they can do nothing. [00:26:00] Chris Davis: You didn’t mangle it. You stuck the landing. That is exactly the right philosophy. And I would say my father and grandfather sort of believed that. I mean, I have siblings that were helped out. And I had an aunt that my grandfather left some money to, to ensure that she and her kids would be all right and so on. So it wasn’t ruthless. But I think it came from a place of compassion — this view that there’s something dignified about earning your way in the world. And, well, look, Barry, if you look at the greater world, there’s a lot of fear. And fear can be a motivator. But God, is it a weight. People live one operation away from bankruptcy, a layoff away from being foreclosed on. If you as a parent can put a safety net there, if our society doesn’t — if you as a parent can do that for your kids, and my grandfather did that, and my father did that — there was, I don’t think we ever grew up with a feeling that there wasn’t a safety net. And so the freedom from that fear is a huge gift you give your kids. It was a huge gift that was given to me. And that’s what gives you the confidence to be able to try anything. Because you’re not worried — especially when you start having kids and you think, my God, I can’t take this risk, I can’t leave State Street. It never occurred to me that I couldn’t leave. But I think their view was, the fortunate thing was both my dad and my grandfather were very frugal. So we didn’t live in hardship, but we certainly didn’t go to Southampton and Palm Beach and Aspen. They had a very puritanical sense of that. We went out to Fire Island, and we had a house on stilts — I still have a house out there, and it’s in a swamp. It’s one storm away from the end, and there’s no cars. You take a little ferry out there. I always think of it as the anti-Hamptons. [00:27:30] Barry Ritholtz: Oh, very much is. [00:28:00] Chris Davis: And that’s what I love. My parents had a place in Maine, but it was not a fancy deal. Like a little cabin. Not Kennebunkport. Well, they had a nice house, but it wasn’t a Newport mansion. And they had it because — they used to call them, in the twenties, people like my grandparents were called “rustics.” Isn’t that a funny word? It was people that were wealthy, but would go and live very simply in the summer. It’s very much a Scandinavian ethic. And I think it developed especially in the late 19th century — there was a movement called the Chautauqua movement, that I’m still a supporter of, which basically said: as the bourgeoisie and wealth were being created, there was this one branch of wealth creators that decided they wanted to be English aristocrats. And they built mansions in Newport, and they had yachts. And then there was another branch that said, that’s not the American way. Rockefeller in many ways embodied a certain amount of that sense of stewardship. Some were even more extreme in terms of restraint. But the Chautauqua movement sprung up — they created these places, there’s still one left, it’s in upstate New York, where you would go with your family for self-improvement. And you would live simply, and there would be lectures. You would improve your mind, you’d improve your soul, you’d improve your health. And you’d bring your kids. There would be a sort of day camp for the kids, and there’d be church on Sunday. But it was a non-denominational church that was about service. And then there were lectures. It’s where Salman Rushdie was stabbed, if you remember, a couple of years ago. He was in Chautauqua, lecturing at this place that still exists, and people go for a week or two weeks every year. So the place I go on Fire Island was part of that Chautauqua movement. But the ethos of it, I think, is something my parents and grandparents really subscribed to. [00:30:49] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. Coming up, we continue our conversation with Chris Davis, chairman and portfolio manager at Davis Advisors, discussing how he developed his philosophy and investment process at Davis. I’m Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. — I am Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. Chris Davis is my extra special guest. He is the chairman of Davis Advisors. In 2005, he was named Morningstar’s Portfolio Manager of the Year. He helps to oversee $20 billion in client assets, a healthy chunk of which is he and his colleagues. We briefly mentioned Buffett earlier — later on I get to ask people who their mentors were, but I have to bring this to this part of the conversation. Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger were your mentors? Is this remotely true? It just seems insane. [00:32:13] Chris Davis: Oh, it started in — I wanna say it was 1990. So — [00:32:23] Barry Ritholtz: He’s already a well-known investing rockstar at that point. [00:32:28] Chris Davis: The way it really started was with Charlie. I met Charlie long before Warren. The reason was, I was trying to sell a business. My grandfather, as I started going through his accounts and going in there on the weekends — he had a business called securities lending. And I don’t know how well you know that business — [00:32:48] Barry Ritholtz: Anytime you’re gonna short a stock, you gotta borrow it from somebody, and that’s gonna cost you a little — [00:32:52] Chris Davis: It’s gonna cost you a little margin. So my grandfather’s view was, he had a portfolio of appreciated stocks that he was never gonna sell. And he said, if somebody wants to short the stock and pay me to borrow it, fine. And the number one borrowed stock in those days was Berkshire — Berkshire Hathaway, of course, because you couldn’t borrow it anywhere, because everybody had the certificates. They weren’t — [00:33:17] Barry Ritholtz: Literally had the paper certs. [00:33:19] Chris Davis: Yeah. There was very little Berkshire that was in street name. It was in individual people, and therefore you couldn’t borrow it. [00:33:25] Barry Ritholtz: It was locked away and safe. [00:33:27] Chris Davis: So he had a big holding, and he had a broker dealer — Shelby Cullom Davis was a registered broker dealer. And so he could lend out the shares and make a couple hundred basis points a year extra return on top of the Berkshire return. So that’s how he started in the securities lending business. But gradually, the guy who was doing it for him and administering it said, well, we can also help — we’ve got all these people that wanna short all sorts of different securities, and we can act as what was called a broker finder. We’ll go out and find the securities for these people to short, and we’ll make a little spread as they go through. Well, this business grew and grew and grew, and soon there were 17 employees in the securities lending business. And it was a big operation. And my grandfather by then was probably in his eighties and was nervous, because as I went through the list of counterparties with him, there were firms we had never heard of. There was this one called LTCM. And I said, what is this LTCM? We’ve got, like, $500, $800 million lent out to them. “Oh, that’s Long-Term Capital Management.” So we talked about it. He said, yeah, I think we gotta get rid of this thing. [00:34:58] Barry Ritholtz: So wait, did he hold on to that business, or did they spin it — [00:35:01] Chris Davis: So I said to him, we gotta get rid of this thing. And he said, fine, well, see if you can find somebody to take it over, because we do have 17 employees, and they made their careers here. We’re not gonna fire everybody. And so we started calling around, and I thought, what characteristics do we need? We need a lot of excess capital, ideally an appreciated portfolio of securities, a sort of AAA type balance sheet, and somebody that can understand it. So I thought, well, Berkshire. So a wonderful friend in those days named Bob Lenzner, who was a reporter at Forbes — [00:35:42] Barry Ritholtz: I recall — I had lunch with him at, I wanna say, the Harvard Club. I think he was an alum. Is that right? [00:35:49] Chris Davis: Could have been his kids. Our kids were — [00:35:51] Barry Ritholtz: I could be wrong, but — [00:35:52] Chris Davis: Our kids were in the same elementary school. And I got to know him just watching basketball games with third graders or something. And he mentioned casually in conversation that he had met this brilliant guy, Charlie Munger. And I said, well, I know who Charlie is, but I’m dying to meet him. And so Bob arranged for us to have breakfast. Charlie was in New York, and I went down — it was at the Millennium Hotel down by the World Trade Center. And I sat down and introduced myself: Mr. Munger, pleased to meet you, I’m Chris Davis. And I said, I’m working with my grandfather at Shelby Cullom Davis & Company, and have I got a business for you. And I pitched our securities lending business, and Charlie put up his hand after about four minutes, and he said, “I have no intention of buying a business run by seven guys named Vinny and Barry.” It was the perfect description. I mean, we had Vinny, Tony, Mikey, Nicky. And so we did end up finding a buyer eventually, just not Berkshire. And it wasn’t really a buyer — we just did a sort of earn-out. We just wanted everybody to have jobs. And so they all got a job at a broker dealer. [00:37:14] Barry Ritholtz: So beyond the pitch to Munger, how did your relationship — [00:37:17] Chris Davis: Go? Well, so the pitch ended in four and a half minutes. And so I said, well, I’m sorry I wasted your time. And I got up to leave, and he said, where are you going? And I said, well — just don’t leave, I’m only just getting to know you. I’m not interested in your business, but tell me about you. And we got talking about a few things. But what really happened was, I started listening. And as you can tell, I like to talk — around Charlie, I just listened as much as I could. And we sat at that table till lunchtime. And Charlie said, I have to go to a lunch, but if you find yourself in Los Angeles, give me a call and I’ll make time for you. And so, of course, I started going to Los Angeles pretty regularly. And so that was a huge gift in my life. It was a gift professionally, but thank God it was a gift personally. He helped me through some hard times in my personal life. He was just a wonderful mentor in every dimension. [00:38:23] Barry Ritholtz: So there are a lot of things that all of us have learned from Warren and Charlie — through the letters, through the annual meetings, through all sorts of stuff. I’m curious, what did you learn from Charlie that none of us can find in the public materials? [00:38:46] Chris Davis: Well — [00:38:48] Barry Ritholtz: Good question. [00:38:49] Chris Davis: Right. I think, most deeply, I learned about integrity in the traditional sense, meaning wholeness. Charlie was a whole person. The alignment — what he thought, what he said, what he did — they were all the same thing. His sense of his own code of being was so disciplined, but was filled with this — his reputation as a curmudgeon may have been cultivated. I never saw it. He was a truth speaker, but he was also, in a very profound way, a very loving person — very cheerful, very committed, profoundly loyal. So I used to joke that if I did a Venn diagram of the things I admire about my father and the things I admire about Charlie Munger, there’s surprisingly little overlap. They were both frugal. But Charlie was an incredibly broad thinker. My father was just single-minded about investing. Charlie was curious about everything. Charlie was very committed to relationship, continuity, breadth. My father is very specialized, very narrow. My father is incredibly physically fit and remains, to this day, very vigorous. Charlie was willfully sedentary. My father is very nomadic. And Charlie went to the same island in Minnesota and lived in the same house his whole life. He was very much a creature of habit. And so they were very different that way. [00:40:46] Barry Ritholtz: Just imagine if Charlie exercised, how much longer he could have lived. [00:40:50] Chris Davis: I don’t know, 99 and three quarters is pretty good. That’s one of the things he said — he said, I’m not sure I see the alignment. [00:40:58] Barry Ritholtz: So let’s talk a little bit about the returns and about the philosophy. Back of the envelope, I calculated Davis Advisors has been compounding shareholder wealth at greater than 10% annually since 1969. Does that sound remotely accurate? [00:41:17] Chris Davis: That sounds right. We’re still ahead of the market from the beginning. [00:41:21] Barry Ritholtz: Starting out in 1969 — early days of a horrific bear market. You have managed money through — well, you were in grad school, but your dad — during the ’87 crash, you’re involved during the dot-com implosion, during the financial crisis, during the pandemic. I mean, you have seen lots and lots of cycles across all of these decades and all of these different environments. What key investment principles stand out as absolutely core, non-negotiable — this is the heart of what we do? [00:41:58] Chris Davis: Well, the entire investment process boils down to these two questions: what sort of businesses do we wanna own, and how much do we pay for them? I should say, before I go on, that the interplay between those two is part of the nuance of investing. You may own a slightly lower quality business because the price is so extreme. But the characteristics that we look for in every business have to do with durability. Because we buy businesses thinking our goal is to own them forever. Our goal is for the return to be driven by the earnings yield on the business over time, not by some change in the valuation and finding an exit strategy. And so those characteristics are exactly the characteristics you would look for if I said, you’ve gotta put a business away for your kids or your grandkids. So the nature of the business, the returns on capital, the competitive moats, the nature of the balance sheet, the risk — and very importantly, the character of the people running it. We spend a lot of time on management evaluation. In this land of AI — I just came back from the Markel annual meeting — character will not show up efficiently, I don’t think, in the AI world. And boy does it matter when you think about navigating an unpredictable future — just that ability to be resilient, to adapt, but always to be investing the money as if it’s your own. And there are CEOs that do that. So that’s the nature of the business. And then the valuation discipline is the securities analysis part of what we do. If the first part is business research, then this is the securities analysis. It’s adjusting the income statement — that’s where the accounting training comes in. It’s understanding the incremental returns on capital, and it’s adjusting the balance sheet, every account on the balance sheet, because of course GAAP earnings is a convention, but it may or may not reflect reality. So you put those two things together and we build an IRR, an internal rate of return forecast. We work on this concept of owner earnings in each business. And then we focus on the quality and the durability of the business. [00:44:26] Barry Ritholtz: I can’t help but point out that you talk about buying or owning businesses, not buying stocks. That seems to be a very fundamental distinction compared to most fund managers. [00:44:42] Chris Davis: It’s so profoundly important. We view ourselves as business owners. We view the management as our partners in most cases. We view the signs of short-termism as dangerous. It’s one of the reasons we feel that the activist movement has completely lost the thread and should be greatly resisted — whereas it was very useful when it started. We could talk about that later. But absolutely, we’re owning businesses, and we’re trying to own businesses that are compounding machines. I watched what it meant for my grandfather to own businesses for 20, 30, 40 years. I look at our own portfolio. I look at companies like American Express or Wells Fargo or JP Morgan in the financial world. I look more recently at companies like Amazon, Texas Instruments. You look at what a business can compound over 20, 30 years. I mentioned Markel — when I first met the now-CEO of Markel, we met in Omaha at the Orpheum Theater at a Berkshire annual meeting in, like, 1990. The stock was at like 19 or 20, and it’s at 2000 now. And by the way, they have an activist idiotically saying they should split up the company. The company’s doing fine. It’s a company that is being built to last. And the idea of getting a quick sugar fix — because you can sell some part to private equity at a premium — that doesn’t serve capitalism, and it really won’t serve the long-term shareholders of that business. [00:46:17] Barry Ritholtz: You mentioned a number of financials in that list. I’m kind of curious, because financials have had some pretty good years. They’ve had some pretty rough years. Obviously the financial crisis was devastating. Although my pet theory about JP Morgan Chase is, when they had their subprime problem, it predated everybody by five years. And there was still a bid when they had to get out. So they got a little lucky. And they happen to have a particularly talented CEO. But this concentration of financials — I’m curious what led to it. And I’m curious about the relationship between what some people describe as high conviction investing and concentration in a particular sector like financials. [00:47:11] Chris Davis: Well, I think high conviction investing is exactly the right description. And if we end up with a focus on a particular sector, it’s not necessarily because of a view of the sector — it’s because of the individual companies. Financials is one of the most misleading sectors there is. Because to me, what creates correlation risk is when businesses are tied to the same macroeconomic variables. Financials is a massively broad category. There are financials that have risk if the wind blows in certain parts of the world; there are financials that have risk if interest rates change; financials that have risks that have to do with recession, some to capital markets — they’re all different. And I’ll give you a really powerful example. I started our financial fund, I don’t know, in something like 1990. That fund from then to today has outperformed the S&P 500. And it has outperformed the S&P 500 quite meaningfully when you compound it out. At the time we started it, I didn’t even know there was a financials index. But it was founded with this belief — and my grandfather of course specialized in financials, I started as a financials analyst — he had a phrase that he loved, which is, in financials you can find growth stocks in disguise. And he said the reason is that you have industries that are huge, where companies can grow for a long period of time by simply growing. Just this year, Progressive finally passed State Farm. Progressive has probably compounded in the high teens for 30 years. And it just became maybe the largest insurance company in personal auto. So these massive industries where you can compound for a long time without outgrowing your sector. Second advantage: the business model doesn’t really go obsolete. Making a spread on money is about the oldest business there is — maybe the second oldest. [00:49:14] Barry Ritholtz: Thank you. [00:49:16] Chris Davis: What else? It’s an industry where you have huge dispersion of outcomes, but relatively homogenous valuations. So — I mentioned Progressive. You have companies that have grown. Capital One — you look at Capital One’s growth record from 1987 to today, and yet it’s trading at nine or 10 times earnings, because it’s a financial. I’m like, it looks like a growth stock to me. It’s still run by the founder. It’s a fintech company, it’s a data science company. It’s in the top 10 of all holders of AI and machine learning patents. But it trades at 9.8 times earnings and 1.2 times book value, with a mid-teens return on equity. It seems just nuts to me, but whatever, we love it. So that’s the idea of growth stocks in disguise. And the last advantage of financials is that culture is a defining and sustainable difference. [00:50:12] Barry Ritholtz: This is a theme I have heard from so many really savvy executors — CEOs as well as investors. How do you, as an investor, wrap your arms around culture? It feels like you almost have to be in it to see it. Is it something that, as an outside investor, you get access to? How do you identify quality culture? [00:50:39] Chris Davis: Well, it’s a perfect question, but I’ll give you the punchline for the differentiation. Last year, our financial fund, which is 95% in large cap financials, outperformed the S&P financials index and the XLF, the largest financials ETF, by 1200 basis points. [00:51:01] Barry Ritholtz: Touché, right? [00:51:02] Chris Davis: It was a great year for us. But the point is, they’re in large cap financials, we’re in large cap financials. How can you get such dispersion? But the same is — [00:51:13] Barry Ritholtz: So because they own everything, and you own the better companies. [00:51:16] Chris Davis: Well, they’re very concentrated — they’re concentrated in the mega cap banks by and large, and Visa and MasterCard. But we’re fairly concentrated too. We only have 20, 25 names. And 20 or 25 names are probably 80% of the index. [00:51:33] Barry Ritholtz: Does the gap come from the stock selection or the screening out of what you don’t like? [00:51:40] Chris Davis: Well, it really goes back to the culture question. So to bring it full circle — within financials, we are looking for the companies that we feel can be compounding machines. And we’re looking for the companies where their culture creates a durable advantage. The reason culture can create an advantage in financials is because, in most cases, your cost of goods sold is an estimate. And if you have an aggressive management, they can use accounting to front-load earnings that you’ll pay the piper for — three, five, excuse me, 10 years from now. So they can look good for a long time. Whereas if you do the opposite, if you have a good culture, you’re understating the near term, but you’re building cushion for the long term. And so when the times go rough, when the tide goes out and you see who’s swimming without a bathing suit, that’s where the culture really matters. Now, you mentioned all the crises that I’ve seen over my career. I’ve seen a lot of these management teams and these companies go through crises, and you see who’s wearing a bathing suit. So we just went through an interest rate crisis, right? [00:52:55] Barry Ritholtz: 2022, 500 basis points. [00:52:57] Chris Davis: And we used to get questions from clients all the time: why don’t you own First Republic? In October, my colleague Pierce Crosby wrote a research report — just internal, just for himself — saying he’s just startled by the amount of risk Silicon Valley and First Republic are taking. He said it’s sort of amazing. Look at the duration on their assets. They’re assuming their liabilities, their deposits, are gonna be with them for 8, 10, 12 years, and that they’re uncorrelated. So we used to get questions, why don’t you own them? They’ve had such great growth records. And our view was, well, it’s been a mistake not to own them in the sense that they’ve outperformed, but we are not gonna own the companies that are optimized to the upcycle. And that’s a different culture. They had a growth culture, but it blew them up. And so we instead looked at companies like — well, JP Morgan was an outstanding example. Wells Fargo, Capital One — where they didn’t reach for the easy money of taking that extra risk on the interest rates. They could have. Jamie Dimon stood up at an analyst meeting and said, I could add a billion or $2 billion to my profits with a phone call, and I’m not gonna do it — [00:54:13] Barry Ritholtz: Because of the risk. [00:54:14] Chris Davis: Because of the risk. He said, I could put out my money for five, seven years, and he didn’t do it. So you could see that. So some of it’s quantitative. You identify culture by accounting choices. Look at how accident year reserves develop at insurance companies. Look at how credit losses develop. Look at the duration in the asset portfolio of a bank. Look at the mark-to-market risks that an investment bank is taking, and so on. So you can identify culture quantitatively in financials — that’s a big advantage. But then the next part is qualitative. And there, I think Warren put it best: in a complex financial, the CEO has to be the chief risk officer. You can have somebody with that title, but if the CEO doesn’t understand the nature and the complexity of the risks, they should not be the CEO of a financial company. [00:55:03] Barry Ritholtz: So not only am I hearing a lot of Warren’s voice in things you say, I’m also hearing a lot of similar companies — Coca-Cola, Amex, Wells Fargo. Coincidence? [00:55:18] Chris Davis: Well, it would be strange if we ended up different. Of course, I always like it when we owned it first. So for example, we were, I think, the largest shareholder of General Re before Berkshire bought it. And by the way, our research was not so good on that one. [00:56:00] Barry Ritholtz: Oh, really? Not his favorite pick, over the — [00:56:01] Chris Davis: As you saw subsequently, Gen Re did not perform very well for many years. And I think Warren would say — I think he has said publicly, I won’t put words in his mouth — I’ll put it this way: well, I’ll tell you what. Charlie came to visit us, and we have a wall of mistakes where we frame the stock certificate — [00:56:08] Barry Ritholtz: A good temple of — yes, is that what that is? [00:56:10] Chris Davis: And Charlie was looking through it, and he said, where the hell’s your Gen Re? And I said, Gen Re wasn’t a mistake. We got Berkshire stock for Gen Re. That was fantastic. [00:56:21] Barry Ritholtz: Did you have anything to do with the transaction? Or they just went out and bought it? And you happen to be a big holder? [00:56:26] Chris Davis: No. We were big GEICO shareholders, so — no, it was, and we overlapped in Amex, but no, I mean, we’re much more diversified. We never owned Apple. There’s huge differences. I mean, starting with the fact that Warren has outperformed all investment advisors for 50 years. But you’d be crazy not to study when Warren owns something, or to study Berkshire itself. [00:57:00] Barry Ritholtz: That makes a lot of sense. There’s another distinction between the two of you. You say that you are neither deep value nor go-go growth. So what does that leave you? Growth at a reasonable price, somewhere, something adjacent — [00:57:20] Chris Davis: We love growth at a reasonable price. Because what are the other — [00:57:23] Barry Ritholtz: Who doesn’t want growth — [00:57:23] Chris Davis: Growth at unreasonable prices, that turns — [00:57:26] Barry Ritholtz: Out, or unreasonable — [00:57:27] Chris Davis: Non-growth at silly prices. [00:57:28] Barry Ritholtz: Yeah. Growth at a — [00:57:29] Chris Davis: Reasonable price. I think what we would say is, it’s obvious to us that growth is a component of value, right? [00:57:36] Barry Ritholtz: Growth is a component of value. So take — [00:57:39] Chris Davis: A company that grows profitably is more valuable than one that doesn’t grow, right? Think of the business. A business that grows profitably is more valuable. A business that can redeploy its capital at high incremental rates of return is way more valuable than one that can’t, or one that’s capital intensive and shrinking and so on. So growth is a component of value. And the difference between us and a typical growth manager is, we tend to believe more deeply, based on experience, that high rates of growth attract competition. Competition lowers returns. And so we believe in capitalism, and we believe that growth is hard, and maintaining growth is hard. So we tend to be more skeptical than the average go-go growth investor, but we tend to be more open to paying a fair price for a company that can grow profitably than the typical value investor. So much of our research is about the durability of the growth, the competitive advantages that a business has. So our portfolio currently trades in aggregate — if you took all of our companies — at something like 14 times earnings. The market as a whole is at 20 or 21. The value index is at 19 times. And yet we have a portfolio of companies that has grown their earnings over the last five years something like 14% a year. So we feel we have what my dad used to call the value investor’s dream. [00:59:21] Barry Ritholtz: Low cost, fast growth. [00:59:22] Chris Davis: Low valuation, and durable, sustainable growth. [00:59:26] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. So before we jump too deep into the current state of affairs, I have to ask you about a quote of yours that I really like: “As human beings, we don’t welcome fear and panic, but as investors, we welcome the bargain prices that those emotions tend to produce.” Discuss. [00:59:50] Chris Davis: Well, obviously the market is, of course, a voting machine in the short term — it reflects psychology — and in the long term, a weighing machine. And that — [01:00:01] Barry Ritholtz: Hold on. That’s a great quote. I’m gonna write that down. [01:00:06] Chris Davis: And so psychology helps shape prices. And what we find is that there’s always risk. What varies is people’s perception of it. And I think today we’re in a time when people are underestimating risks, and therefore prices are generally high. It’s one of the reasons I find it so amazing that our portfolio is trading at 14 times earnings. The market scares me at 21, 22 times earnings, but our portfolio feels like it’s below long-time averages. So I feel this disconnect where I’m simultaneously pessimistic about the market because of the euphoria — there’s no skepticism, there’s no fear in prices — and at the same time, feel very comfortable with our portfolio. [01:01:03] Barry Ritholtz: So let me push back a little bit, just to hear your reaction. We keep hearing artificial intelligence and Nvidia and all the semis being compared to the dot-com era. And every time I hear that — aside from the fact that many of those companies, forget profits, didn’t even have revenues, and this is a giant-revenue, giant-profit era. Markets today are trading at 20, 22 times. We finished the nineties at 32 times. Theoretically, there’s a ton of upside from here, especially if earnings growth continues. Is it the contrarian take that, hey, this market could go another five or 10 years before things get really stupid? [01:01:54] Chris Davis: Well, what I’d say is, as I look out there, I see two types of end investor. One is this sort of belief that we’re on a plateau of permanent prosperity. This time is different — [01:02:07] Barry Ritholtz: A permanently high plateau. Yes. [01:02:10] Chris Davis: Yes. And they are all in on the momentum trade, which has worked so well. Now, I believe that momentum investing, even though it’s worked so well, to me is crazy, because it’s not common sense. [01:02:30] Barry Ritholtz: It works until it stops. [01:02:32] Chris Davis: It works until it stops. And when it stops, you really feel foolish that the fact that you were paying an ever higher price, you thought, was a good thing. [01:02:40] Barry Ritholtz: Why does price matter? If it’s going up, buy it; if it stops going up, sell. [01:02:45] Chris Davis: Exactly. And so that’s one group of investors, and they’re taking a lot of risk, because they tend to be in the highest multiple parts of the market, and the parts of the market where there is the most presumption that high margins and high growth rates are sustainable — and the data is over. I think fewer than 3% of companies can maintain a growth rate in revenue of 20% for more than a decade. Like, fewer than 3%. [01:03:17] Barry Ritholtz: I mean, that’s a huge growth rate for a long — [01:03:19] Chris Davis: Period of time. And there are a lot of valuations today that have that baked in. You get these analyst reports, and there’s even fewer — less than, I think it’s five-tenths of 1%, but you could check me, it might be three-tenths — but it’s a fraction of a percent that are able to maintain 50% margins for more than a decade. Those are very high margins. But again, they’re in a lot of models right now. So I think there’s risk on that. Now, the other side of people taking risk are the ones that are huddled in cash saying it’s the end of the world. Everything that’s happening — AI’s gonna swallow our children, the world is falling apart, everything that’s happening in Washington — and they’re sitting in cash, which — [01:04:05] Barry Ritholtz: Is risky as well. [01:04:06] Chris Davis: Really risky. I mean, just since 2000, the purchasing power of a dollar is down something like 55%. In my grandmother’s lifetime, I think the purchasing power of a dollar fell like 94, 95%. [01:04:21] Barry Ritholtz: They’re taking — what is it, $7 over 90 years. [01:04:24] Chris Davis: Right. So I think these huge crowded sides of the market — the people sitting in cash, and the people assuming the extreme growth — are both taking a lot of risk. [01:04:34] Barry Ritholtz: That’s a terrible barbell you’ve just described. The extremes are either inflation’s gonna kill them, or speculation is gonna get them. [01:04:42] Chris Davis: Yeah. And where we land in the middle is with this idea that there are durable, overlooked businesses right now. As I say, we have a portfolio of 25 companies trading at an aggregate of 14 and a half times. By the way, that includes owning some Amazon, it includes owning some Google, but also owning some Capital One, owning some Tyson Foods, some MGM — [01:05:09] Barry Ritholtz: Which portfolio is this? [01:05:10] Chris Davis: This is our flagship portfolio. So this is the Davis New York Venture Fund. But really, the way people are finding us increasingly — 10 years ago, Barry, we launched our ETFs. We were alone for nine years. We are the only true active manager running a value ETF. I think our value ETF, which is called DUSA, is the number one active-for-passive value ETF for three years. But nobody really cares. That’s all right. [01:05:40] Barry Ritholtz: Although the past year or two we have seen a lot of flows — hey, most of the money is going to the passive indexes, but the third or quarter that’s not going there is going active. [01:05:54] Chris Davis: Exactly. So they’re finding our way. And I’m proud that we are so early. I don’t mind being early. But what I’d say is, the optimistic case you lay out — I think the three elements of change in the civilization that are increasing risk today are: we certainly have a change in the monetary world order. You and I had spent our entire careers in a world of falling interest rates approaching zero, falling inflation, all of the things that fed into that — low wage pressure, de-unionization, globalization. All of that has stunningly and permanently, I believe, come to an end. We are in a state where we are printing so much money relative to what the interest rates are. I think there’s a lot of risk, but certainly we’re not going back to zero, probably, ever again. That was a once-in-history phenomenon, free money. The second big change is geopolitics. There’s no question that for our entire career, we were in a world of globalization. We were in a world of functional peace. We were in a world of stability. We were in a world where the wall fell and markets doubled. All of those things have also absolutely come to an end, and that increases risk. So those first two things increase risk. And what’s the third? AI. There’s this massive technological change that increases risk — it increases the risk of all different types of businesses, and it increases opportunity, but it increases risk. So when you have three fundamental shifts going on, all of which have unpredictable outcomes, and yet you have valuations — not at all-time highs, but elevated — certainly relative to the direction of travel of interest rates over time, then I’d say, I like where we are: with our 14 yield, solid growth rate in the business, durability, AI as a lens, globalization as a lens, inflation as a lens. Put those things together, we sit with 25 companies with these great characteristics, in our ETF or in our funds or SMA, or however the advisor finds us. [01:08:13] Barry Ritholtz: Really interesting. Coming up, we continue our conversation with Chris Davis, portfolio manager at Davis Advisors, discussing the current market environment. I’m Barry Ritholtz, you are listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. — I am Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. Chris Davis is my extra special guest. He is the chairman and portfolio manager of Davis Advisors. So I’m glad you mentioned artificial intelligence as one of those three big shifts that are taking place. How do you, as an analyst and a fund manager, separate what is a transformative technology — and potentially a transformative source of value creation — from just the rampant speculative excess that rears its head on a regular basis? [01:09:27] Chris Davis: Well, what we’re seeing is Amara’s Law in full bloom. And Amara’s Law states that transformative technologies are overestimated in the short term and underestimated in the long term. We’re in the overestimation, hype phase. And what I would say we do is, we recognize it as a transformative technology — that is absolutely a baseline assumption. Our other baseline assumption at this stage is that we don’t see it as winner-take-all. So we see it a little bit more like railroads, or the telephone, or electricity, where the users maybe end up making more money than the builders. And so we’ll talk about hedging that bet, but we do think it increases the risk environment. It increases the risk of obsolescence in certain businesses. So we start with this idea that it’s real. Then what we do is, as we do our research, we found every company we look at falls into one of five categories. There’s the emerging winners — that’s where all the heat is, all the speculation. And there’s real danger. You and I started very early talking about Cisco. Remember, the three obvious winners of the internet were AOL, Yahoo, and Cisco. Two don’t exist, and one’s a fraction of what it was. And so picking the emerging winners in the early hype phase is risky. But we’d say, if you wanna look in that space, focus on the businesses that have a real shot at being emerging winners but do not have to constantly raise capital — have proven business models, proven leaders, and businesses that are accretive by the investments that they’re making, so that they earn more money by making these investments, even if it takes longer than — [01:11:11] Barry Ritholtz: So not the hyperscalers. [01:11:13] Chris Davis: Not the hyperscalers. So for us, that’s where we’ve sat with a little bit of Google. We still have Meta and Amazon. We’ve trimmed the first two because they were huge holdings for us — we bought them when they were so out of favor. But if you’re gonna play in the emerging winners — that’s the first. The second category is, okay, who are the enablers of this technology? That’s the picks-and-shovels mindset. They’re the ones that are gonna benefit from the spending wave, but will not be penalized if the return on the spending is very low. [01:11:45] Barry Ritholtz: Semiconductors. [01:11:46] Chris Davis: So yeah, I would say there, for us, it’s been analog chips — Texas Instruments. It’s been semiconductor capital equipment. We are a big shareholder of Samsung, which did nothing, nothing, nothing, and then exploded fourfold in a year. [01:12:00] Barry Ritholtz: They’re driving the entire inquiry of returns. [01:12:05] Chris Davis: It’s amazing. So, but again, we viewed those as enablers. But in enablers, I would also include things like natural gas and copper. They are big, big beneficiaries. So we own Coterra, which is now Devon, ConocoPhillips, Tourmaline — our focus is on natural gas and copper. So those are the enablers. Then the users, who are gonna be the beneficiaries. Well, you’ve gotta think — financials is a great example. Anything where you have a big amount of laptop class workers. It’s what Elon called the laptop class. It’s likely that AI will do to the laptop class what globalization did to blue collar workers. [01:12:49] Barry Ritholtz: Meaning very much hollow it out. [01:12:51] Chris Davis: Hollow it out. The best will still have work, the best will be more valuable, they’ll be more productive. But there’s gonna be a lot of unemployed second-year lawyers and things like that. And so healthcare — claims processing, compliance functions, things like that. So there we focus on the banks that have the scale, the tech stack, and the management to do it. So Capital One, number one. I’d keep Wells Fargo on that list. I think US Bank crosses that chasm. So those, but also — [01:13:25] Barry Ritholtz: JP Morgan Chase is part of the group. [01:13:26] Chris Davis: JP Morgan Chase has done such a great job, but the valuation has gotten — [01:13:30] Barry Ritholtz: So high. And how do you put the Amexes and the MasterCard, Visas of the world? [01:13:33] Chris Davis: We don’t own Visa or MasterCard. And we have a very small position in Amex. And essentially the reason is, we just think that is an area where there is a big spread. They may be on the other side, but boy, there are a lot of people — especially merchants — that would like to figure out some way to bypass that. [01:13:52] Barry Ritholtz: That 3% is a big number. [01:13:55] Chris Davis: A big number. [01:13:56] Barry Ritholtz: This is the first time in my lifetime I have started noticing cash and credit card prices on restaurant menus. This was never a thing before. [01:14:06] Chris Davis: No, and you really see it when you travel. And again, those are so highly valued — at 30 times earnings for Visa. It just seems to us there’s too much risk there. I’ll own the Capital One at nine times. So those are the users. Then the next category is what Jeff Bezos — we call them the indifferent, or the protected. Jeff Bezos, when he said, people ask me what’s gonna change; they all ask me — what’s not gonna change? That’s a very important question. So there, Tyson Foods. Chicken’s not gonna change, right? [01:14:38] Barry Ritholtz: And wait — chickens aren’t gonna lose their jobs to AI. [01:14:40] Chris Davis: Chickens are in good shape. But here you have to be careful, because you don’t have high growth rates, so you don’t wanna overpay, and they’re cyclical businesses, so you don’t wanna pay at the top of a cycle. So Tyson, I think, has a low multiple on cyclically depressed earnings. What else? MGM — I think owning 50% of the Las Vegas strip, 20 or 30% of Macau, and a hundred percent of the only legal gambling in Japan, in Osaka, when it opens in 2029 — that’s very valuable. I don’t think that gets disintermediated by AI. So call those the protected, the what-won’t-change. The last category is the Walking Dead. And there, you mentioned Visa and MasterCard — I don’t know, title insurance, I don’t know. There are all sorts of things where it is really amazing how much money is made for something that you should be able to get around. We’ve seen some of the pressure in the SaaS companies. And so that’s the lens that we look at for all of our companies. We put them through this lens of this fast-changing world. We wanna stay nimble. And Barry, one of the things I think is really important is, I think this is a world where taking liquidity risk is really dangerous, because there’s so much flux. So I think that’s some of the pressure we’re seeing in private equity, private credit. People are saying, why did I lock up my money for — [01:15:59] Barry Ritholtz: Seven years? [01:16:00] Chris Davis: For seven years? If you’re lucky. It’s gonna be longer, I think. So I think the wheels are coming off that. And indexes — remember Kodak? You ready for a number? 10 million digital cameras had been sold when Kodak was still in the top third of the S&P 500. That’s amazing. [01:16:18] Barry Ritholtz: Isn’t — [01:16:18] Chris Davis: That amazing? It’s like, 10 million people knew they would never buy a roll of film again. It was dead. And so the advantage — when Japan peaked in the eighties, every active manager in international investing who was underweight Japan outperformed for the next 10 years just by saying, oh, Japan’s going down, I’m out. And so the index got killed, because it had to sort of go down with the ship. So I think nimbleness, liquidity, flexibility, and this sort of research lens are gonna actually become more valuable. So I think we could see some of the time-tested things that worked in the last decade — dividend darlings, momentum, private equity, indexing — I think all of those things could be challenged given this fast-changing world. [01:17:05] Barry Ritholtz: I’m glad you brought up a few things there, because when you look at some of the fallout from low-cost indexing — the Vanguard effect, BlackRock, whatever you wanna call it — they have all put the fund industry under a lot of pressure. There’s fee compression. There’s been a move to not just indexing, but to ETFs generally. So when your own business — you’re looking at businesses with moats, businesses with defendable processes, and a good culture. You are running a business with a lot of employees and a lot of clients. How do you respond to this external pressure? How do you manage, not the investments, but the business of investing, when it’s just becoming more competitive and more challenging than ever? [01:17:58] Chris Davis: Well, we’re lucky, because, one, we charge low fees. If you charge two and 20 — [01:18:09] Barry Ritholtz: If only I could. [01:18:10] Chris Davis: I know, I know — [01:18:11] Barry Ritholtz: I mean, intellectually, I have a problem with that. But part of me is like, nice work if you can get it. [01:18:18] Chris Davis: I know. I spoke to a guy that charged two and 20 years ago, and I said, why two and 20? What’s the business model? He said, I can’t get three and 30. So that’s hilarious. We’ve always just run with this idea — Charlie once said to me, Charlie Munger: what’s wrong with giving people a bargain? [01:18:36] Barry Ritholtz: Or at least a fair price. [01:18:37] Chris Davis: And it makes it easier for you to outperform over time. So, one, I feel — two, we’re a frugal place. I work with seven colleagues. We’ve been together on average 20 years, 25 years average experience. And we would do this with no outside money, because of the inside money. So we run it with what I would call a real family office mindset, with our own money alongside, in a very low cost operation. And the last thing, Barry, is, we are in a lasting game. What I can tell you is, if 90% of the market was passive, the remaining 10% of active would make a fortune. [01:19:19] Barry Ritholtz: I’ve said that exact thing. If indexing is taking over, doesn’t that create all sorts of inefficiencies for a savvy active manager? [01:19:29] Chris Davis: Absolutely. And I don’t think it’s a coincidence that we started outperforming. I mean, we’ve outperformed the value index for all periods, but we lagged the S&P in this momentum market — and that changed about four years ago, and nobody’s talking about it. [01:19:45] Barry Ritholtz: Coming out of the pandemic. [01:19:46] Chris Davis: Basically, yeah, we’ve been grinding an advantage over the S&P for the last three, three and a half years. And this is with less than half the weight in technology that the index has. So we are underweight the hottest sector, but yet we’ve been grinding out an advantage for three or four years. Why? And I think it’s just because there’s way more money indexed than is thought of. There’s way more money in momentum than is thought, and when I say there’s more in indexing, it’s because there’s so much closet indexing. So I don’t think it’s impossible that we’re already at 70% functionally indexed. Really? So that will really help us. So we’re in a lasting game, we’ve got the balance sheet to do it, and we’re gonna be on the other side. [01:20:33] Barry Ritholtz: That’s really fascinating. You mentioned you guys would just do this without outside money, but let’s put some flesh on those bones. Davis Advisors, the company, the family foundation, you and your partners, the employees — you collectively have more than a few billion dollars in the funds. So you are not only aligned with your clients. I almost feel like “skin in the game” has become a cliche. But the question I want to ask is, being invested that way alongside the clients, how does that affect your decision-making process? And what does that do when you are going through one of those periodic crises that we’ve seen so much over the past 25 years — dot-coms, GFC, pandemic? How does having skin in the game affect your decisions? [01:21:29] Chris Davis: Well, I think it makes us much more rational and much more long term. I once had a colleague that we had to part ways with, because he said that he was so unimpressed by things like momentum, even if they worked. He said, look, if I had a blind monkey in my office pointing to the newspaper every day at a stock, and every single day whatever stock it pointed to went up — he said, you could watch that monkey for six months, you could watch it for a year, you could watch it for two years, and you still wouldn’t invest with the monkey. And I said, of course I wouldn’t. It’s a blind monkey. This is my money, this is my client’s life savings. You think I’m gonna say, oh, the blind monkey pointed at the paper? So when we are in an environment where the market is on a tear and people are saying, oh, you’re dinosaurs — we’re able to hold our discipline. In 2007, our financial fund had lagged most other financial funds, because we were underweighted in real estate, and we didn’t own any Fannie, we didn’t own any Freddie, we didn’t own any Countrywide, we didn’t own Bear Stearns, we didn’t own WaMu. And people would say, what, you’re like a dinosaur? And it’s because it’s our money. And so we don’t mind if it takes a while for that weighing machine to work. We look at every year — did the companies get stronger? Did they get heavier, did they get more valuable? And if so, we view our research as working. And sometimes the stocks don’t go up, sometimes they do, but we’re focused on the businesses. [01:23:07] Barry Ritholtz: On the process, and not just what’s going up that day. The blind monkey reminds me of a fascinating quote from Ken French of Dartmouth. Michael Mauboussin has written a lot about the separation between skill and luck. And French, of Fama-French, had said, it’s very challenging to tell the difference between skill and luck with fund managers. And to really have a data set where you can make an informed decision takes about 20 years. So if you’re gonna wait for that blind monkey, you gotta wait 20 years. And you’re starting out with a blind monkey. I think we have to assume that it’s luck and not skill. [01:23:51] Chris Davis: Well, and look, Barry, your clients come to you — you could say it’s because of your performance, and performance matters. But — [01:24:00] Barry Ritholtz: I don’t think my clients come to — [01:24:01] Chris Davis: Well, what I was gonna say is, what really matters is trust, right? And conviction. And so one of the things — we have clients that say, hey, you went through a period of underperformance, you were out of sync with the market, we weren’t worried. You were building wealth for us every year. We don’t care, oh, this index went here, or the index went there. We’re with you because we have conviction that you’ll get us to our retirement, you’ll get us to our kids’ college funding, you’ll help us achieve our goals. And maintaining that is something you do with your own money. You don’t chase the hot dot. But if you are an investment manager and all of your value comes from the assets under management, you have to chase the hot dot. So trust is an undervalued part of the promise and the value that an investment manager can give to their clients. If your clients trust you, they will get a better return even if you underperform an index — if their trust is able to keep them invested through the ups and downs. [01:25:02] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. All right, last question before I get to my favorites that I ask all my guests. What do you think investors are not generally talking about, thinking about, but perhaps should be? Could be a topic, a geography, an asset class. What important issue is kind of getting overlooked these days? [01:25:27] Chris Davis: Well, I think these three big transitions in the economy are going to turn a lot of what’s become conventional wisdom about investing upside down for a while. So I think — what hasn’t worked? Active management hasn’t worked. Value, price discipline hasn’t worked. What has worked? Oh, alternatives, illiquidity, that’s been great. What has worked that I think is dangerous? Dividend aristocrats. [01:26:07] Barry Ritholtz: You think dividend aristocrats are dangerous because — [01:26:10] Chris Davis: Because they’re looking in the rearview mirror, and they’re not factoring in these big three changes that we talked about. [01:26:17] Barry Ritholtz: Well, isn’t that the problem with all models? [01:26:20] Chris Davis: Kodak was a dividend aristocrat. Xerox was a dividend aristocrat. Polaroid was a dividend aristocrat. And that’s fine, unless there is systemic change. And when you have a big change like you had coming out of the seventies, and the change into the eighties, nineties — you have these big changes, and then everything that worked, everything that helped you survive the crash and the depression — in 1948 you could say, I’m not greedy, I just wanna own bonds, stocks are too dangerous — and you are wiped out in a generation, and bonds became certificates of confiscation. So I think people are underestimating how much these conventional strategies — alternatives, the backward-looking models, including even momentum, indexing versus active. And I would even maybe add international. International had underperformed for so long, and — [01:27:18] Barry Ritholtz: Just the past two years starting to look pretty good. [01:27:20] Chris Davis: Just starting to look pretty good. [01:27:22] Barry Ritholtz: And so you like international? [01:27:23] Chris Davis: I like international. We run an international ETF, DINT, and it’s just like us, it’s all stock picking. It’s run by my partner Danton. In our family, we always keep probably 15, 20% of assets in international. And that looked really stupid until two years ago, and it’s looking a little better. So I think those conventional things are likely to turn upside down. [01:27:47] Barry Ritholtz: What’s the old joke? Being diversified means there’s always something to apologize for in your portfolio. That’s so true. All right, so let me jump to my favorite questions I ask all my guests, even though I would love to stay here and keep you chatting for another three hours. I know you have places to go and people to see. The first question I always ask — I kind of know the answer, but I’m gonna give you another swing at it. Who were your mentors who helped shape your career? And I kind of see four people already. [01:28:22] Chris Davis: Well, you certainly got my dad, my grandfather, and Charlie. I think if I was gonna add another one, I would add Tom Gayner, the CEO of Markel. I just think — that sort of principled stewardship leadership, that servant leadership, a company that is built with an enormous durability and culture of stewardship in mind. We’ve served on boards together. He’s helped me through difficult times. I’ve done my best to help him through difficult times. It’s a great thing to go through life surrounded by people you admire. And of course, I get to work with people I admire. And that’s a big plus. [01:29:00] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really interesting. Let’s talk about — I know you’re a fellow reader. What are some of your favorite books? What are you reading currently? [01:29:10] Chris Davis: Well, I have too many favorite books to list, but I’ll give you three. I was, by the — [01:29:14] Barry Ritholtz: By the way, people always tell me, oh, that’s my favorite question. I’m always looking for something new. [01:29:18] Chris Davis: Well, I’ll give you the most recent one I read that I think is a good antidote to the AI phenomenon, or the AI hysteria, or the AI obsession — that’s a better word. It’s a book called “Alchemy.” The author is Rory Sutherland. I think that’s a very useful book to read right now. [01:29:40] Barry Ritholtz: On marketing and advertising. [01:29:43] Chris Davis: It’s really on the ways in which we maybe fetishize, if I said that right, rationality. When you look at human behavior, it’s very irrational, but it’s often irrational in predictable ways. And the more we say “what’s the rational solution to a problem” and expect people to obey that, the more we’re gonna keep getting crazy outcomes. People react to placebos, but we don’t study placebos. That’s the example he gives that I love: if you wanted to create a really spectacular competitor to Coca-Cola and you hired McKinsey, they would say, well, you should make something that tastes good, sell it a little cheaper, and make it ubiquitous. What you wouldn’t say is, make it more expensive, make it taste bad, and put it in a smaller can. And that’s Red Bull. And so there’s a lot to study in a case like that — how has that worked so well? So I think “Alchemy” is a useful one. Now, I think everybody should read, and then have their kids read, Morgan Housel’s two best books, which should be read as a single book: “The Psychology of Money” and “The Art of Spending.” They go together. I said, one is like the sequel to The Godfather — it’s Godfather Two. It’s not a different movie, it’s just — [01:31:07] Barry Ritholtz: Continuation. [01:31:09] Chris Davis: The culmination, in a way. And you — [01:31:11] Barry Ritholtz: Could skip three. [01:31:12] Chris Davis: Okay, that’s a — [01:31:13] Barry Ritholtz: My father — three just doesn’t — [01:31:15] Chris Davis: I agree. Not as good as the first two. I agree, I agree. And then for a third book — just the one that immediately comes to mind at the moment is “Americana.” It’s a book by — there are two books by the same name, I know, because Charlie had told me — [01:31:34] Barry Ritholtz: 400 years — [01:31:35] Chris Davis: Of American capitalism. [01:31:36] Barry Ritholtz: I love that book. I had him on the podcast years ago. [01:31:39] Chris Davis: Bhu Srinivasan. Yeah. [01:31:40] Barry Ritholtz: Yes. Spectacular. [01:31:41] Chris Davis: Spectacular. And it’s just really — [01:31:43] Barry Ritholtz: I think people are just so unaware of the history of American capitalism. And that book just does a fantastic job laying out the success. [01:31:54] Chris Davis: And it will help you as an investor if you think in chapters of that book. If you think about, okay, AI is unfolding — he talks about the interstate highways being built. Well, when the interstate highways were built, who made money? McDonald’s, Wendy’s. The railroads were built — who made money? It wasn’t the railroads. It was the factories, the ability to distribute. And who were the dead men walking? When the car was developed, there were 3,000 car companies. There were 371 publicly traded internet companies. That’s why picking the emerging winners in the early stages is tricky. Always hard. But think of the chapter, think of that whole arc — that’s a terrific book. [01:32:42] Barry Ritholtz: What are you streaming these days? What’s keeping you entertained — Netflix, podcasts, whatever? [01:32:48] Chris Davis: Well, anybody who knows me — I watch almost nothing. And I particularly don’t watch sports. I don’t know a lot about sports, with one exception. I love ice hockey. And I love ice hockey in part because we had a lot of family history. My mom’s family helped start the NHL and founded the Boston Bruins. [01:33:13] Barry Ritholtz: Wait, what? Your mom’s family helped start — [01:33:15] Chris Davis: The NHL, and founded the Bruins. And we owned the Bruins through my childhood. Can you imagine? My father, who’s probably been to eight hockey games in his life, has his name carved on the Stanley Cup twice, because Shelby Davis was the treasurer of the Boston Bruins. And so they won the cup twice. He got his day with the cup. But one of the things I love about it is that my grandfather, in explaining his love for it to me, said: every sport handicaps the athletes — you can’t use your hands, you can’t use your feet, you have to dribble, whatever it is. He said, hockey accentuates every human ability. [01:34:01] Barry Ritholtz: Between the skates and the stick — [01:34:02] Chris Davis: The skates, the stick, the pads, the oval rink, the ice. I mean, it’s just an amazing accelerator of human ability. And I guess the reason I think of it right at this moment — of course, we’re moving into the Stanley Cup playoffs, you were in the last two rounds — but it’s also because I think there’s a way to look at AI as accentuating human ability. [01:34:26] Barry Ritholtz: It’s an accelerator, for sure. [01:34:28] Chris Davis: It’s an accelerator. And what that could mean for healthcare — for healthcare inflation going negative. I mean, there are all sorts of — [01:34:35] Barry Ritholtz: We’re already finding so many new molecules. If anything’s going to find a cure to a lot of cancers, it’s gonna be this. [01:34:44] Chris Davis: And again, we have to recognize that, of course, like every technology, there are going to be negatives. There are gonna be delays. And as people get disillusioned, we could get a big swing the other way. So, equanimity. But again, going back to “Americana” and tying it to ice hockey — think of those long chapters. [01:35:03] Barry Ritholtz: All right, our final two questions. What sort of advice would you give to a recent college grad interested in a career in investing? [01:35:12] Chris Davis: Well, I would say learn everything you can about business, and ideally work in business. I met a guy down at Markel — they had their reunion just yesterday, I just flew back from Richmond yesterday. Their reunion is a great event. I recommend everybody go — just buy a share of Markel, go to the reunion. You’ll see something a lot like Berkshire. I love the value system there. But I met a guy who was an engineer at Altria, which is headquartered in Richmond. He owned a lot of Altria, he owned a lot of PMI, but he started investing for himself about 20, 25 years ago. He showed me his portfolio, including his cost basis. He’s built a wonderful record as an investor. And so, I don’t love all these kids going to Goldman Sachs and to private equity. I think private equity — it was a wonderful business to begin with, and I think it has absolutely lost the thread. [01:36:16] Barry Ritholtz: And the size. It’s just ramped up and — [01:36:18] Chris Davis: Got so big, and they’re all selling to themselves. And they’re trying to get the widows and orphans in there so that they can unload, have some final sale — just like they did with MLPs and the oil and gas partnerships in the eighties. And I really hate it. There are people within the world of private equity that I admire, that have built stunning records, but most of what’s happening at this scale is just stealing money from pension plans — [01:36:49] Barry Ritholtz: 401(k)s, endowments — [01:36:50] Chris Davis: 401(k)s, and it’s going into penthouses and Ferraris. Where are the customers’ yachts? Look at the returns over the last 10 years of the average state pension plan. Then look at the breakdown of assets, and you realize that all of the drag on their returns is alternatives. [01:37:08] Barry Ritholtz: Amazing. Final question. What do you know about the world of investing today that might have been useful back in the late eighties, early nineties, when you were first getting started? [01:37:21] Chris Davis: Every investor, if they’re honest, will say that their biggest mistakes were what they sold. And so I would say that I’ve always put all my money in the funds, and I think that’s the right alignment. But I realize now, which I didn’t realize then, that there are some real differences — which is that, in the funds, we have to really think about diversification. If each time I bought a stock in the funds I had bought it in my own name, instead of putting my money in the funds and buying, I probably would’ve just left it alone for the last 30 years, and it would’ve done very well. So — I first bought Amazon in 2002. [01:38:05] Barry Ritholtz: Good timing. [01:38:06] Chris Davis: Yeah. But I sold it in 2004. [01:38:08] Barry Ritholtz: Bad sale. [01:38:09] Chris Davis: Thank you. [01:38:10] Barry Ritholtz: I could tell you the same story with — [01:38:12] Chris Davis: Apple. [01:38:13] Barry Ritholtz: It was $15, with 13 in cash. Tripled my money. I was a genius. That was like 10,000% ago. [01:38:21] Chris Davis: I know. We did the same thing in Apple. We viewed it as a real estate play. We said, if you mark the real estate to market and add it to the cash, it was free. It was an 80-cent dollar. And then when it went to $2, we were like, whoa, too rich for our blood. So I do think that I’m trying to really learn and think about how I can improve results over the next 20 years by being more willing to hold. And what does that mean in terms of position size? What does it mean in terms of volatility? What does it mean in terms of client expectation? Would I feel the same if a client has $25,000 with us as I would if it was just my own money? Because I can absorb a bigger loss, and I can absorb more volatility. So that’s something I’m still trying to process. But God, I love the business. And, like my grandfather, if I could die at my desk at a very old age — I do have the best job on earth. I get to study success. I get to work with people I admire. I go and visit companies to focus on that elusive idea of culture. I get to meet the incredible people that have built our society, that have built businesses. And we have a country that loves to tear down the heroes. We admire the guy on the way up, but once they succeed, we somehow decide they’re a villain. I don’t think that’s constructive. I think it’s a strange thing for us to admire athletes and not admire Jeff Bezos for what he created and how it has served all of us every day. We all use Amazon and it serves us. Every day we delight in seeing our kids on Instagram or using Google Maps. And the idea that we continue to vilify our heroes, instead of judging people by their biggest accomplishment, not their weakest moment. [01:40:15] Barry Ritholtz: Chris, thank you so much for being so generous with your time. This has been absolutely delightful. We have been speaking with Chris Davis. He is the chairman and portfolio manager at Davis Advisors. If you enjoy this conversation, well, check out any of the 641 we’ve done over the past 12 years. You can find those at iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, Bloomberg, wherever you get your favorite podcast. I would be remiss if I didn’t thank the crack team that helps put these conversations together each week. Alexis Noriega is my video producer. Sean Russo is my researcher. Anna Luke is my podcast producer. I’m Barry Ritholtz. You’ve been listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. ~~~ This content, which contains security-related opinions and/or information, is provided for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon in any manner as professional advice, or an endorsement of any practices, products or services. There can be no guarantees or assurances that the views expressed here will be applicable for any particular facts or circumstances, and should not be relied upon in any manner. You should consult your own advisers as to legal, business, tax, and other related matters concerning any investment. The commentary in this “post” (including any related blog, podcasts, videos, and social media) reflects the personal opinions, viewpoints, and analyses of the Ritholtz Wealth Management employees providing such comments, and should not be regarded the views of Ritholtz Wealth Management LLC. or its respective affiliates or as a description of advisory services provided by Ritholtz Wealth Management or performance returns of any Ritholtz Wealth Management Investments client. References to any securities or digital assets, or performance data, are for illustrative purposes only and do not constitute an investment recommendation or offer to provide investment advisory services. Charts and graphs provided within are for informational purposes solely and should not be relied upon when making any investment decision. Past performance is not indicative of future results. The content speaks only as of the date indicated. Any projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, prospects, and/or opinions expressed in these materials are subject to change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by others. The Compound Media, Inc., an affiliate of Ritholtz Wealth Management, receives payment from various entities for advertisements in affiliated podcasts, blogs and emails. Inclusion of such advertisements does not constitute or imply endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation thereof, or any affiliation therewith, by the Content Creator or by Ritholtz Wealth Management or any of its employees. Investments in securities involve the risk of loss. For additional advertisement disclaimers see here: https://www.ritholtzwealth.com/advertising-disclaimers Please see disclosures here: https://ritholtzwealth.com/blog-disclosures/ Previous Post Next Post Read More Disclosures Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Get subscriber-only insights and news delivered by Barry daily. How Greed and Easy Money Corrupted Wall Street and Shook the World Economy Learn More... © 2026 The Big Picture Get subscriber-only insights and news delivered by Barry every two weeks. Subscribe
--------------------------------------------------

Title: MUFG Announces $3.6 Billion Financing for Delfin LNG's First Floating LNG Vessel
URL: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mufg-announces-3-6-billion-financing-for-delfin-lngs-first-floating-lng-vessel-302794094.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T14:45:00Z
Full Content:
Searching for your content... In-Language News Contact Us 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET Jun 08, 2026, 10:45 ET Share this article MUFG serves as Financial Advisor, Initial Coordinating Lead Arranger and Administrative Agent on landmark U.S. LNG infrastructure project NEW YORK, June 8, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), one of the world's leading financial groups, today announced its role in the successful financing of The Delfin LNG project's first floating liquefied natural gas vessel, Delfin FLNG 1, a transformative energy infrastructure project under development in Louisiana and offshore in the Gulf of America. As Financial Advisor, Initial Coordinating Lead Arranger and Administrative Agent, MUFG played a central role in helping bring the project to Final Investment Decision. Delfin FLNG 1 is the first floating liquefaction facility in the United States and, at 4.4 million tons of LNG per year, the largest floating LNG project globally by liquefaction capacity. MUFG helped structure and raise approximately $3.6 billion in total debt to support the transaction. The financing includes approximately $2.8 billion of operating company financing, including a construction term loan, revolving credit facility and senior secured notes, as well as $800 million of holding company financing. "This transaction highlights MUFG's role in delivering strategic advice, tailored financing solutions, and disciplined execution to support clients in advancing complex projects," said Chip Lewis, Managing Director at MUFG. "We are proud to bring our sector experience and capabilities to help support Delfin LNG in achieving this important milestone" The project is backed by long-term LNG sales agreements with major global energy companies and is sponsored by a consortium that includes Global Infrastructure Partners, a part of Blackrock, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Vitol, Diameter Capital Partners and Delfin Midstream Inc. The first vessel is expected to be constructed and commissioned over approximately five years by Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. and Black & Veatch. The transaction underscores MUFG's continued commitment to supporting complex, large-scale infrastructure and energy financing for clients globally. It also further strengthens MUFG's relationship with Delfin and key project stakeholders as the company advances future phases of its floating LNG platform. About MUFG Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) is one of the world's leading financial groups. Headquartered in Tokyo and with over 360 years of history, MUFG has a global network with approximately 2,000 locations in more than 40 countries. The Group has about 150,000 employees and offers services including commercial banking, trust banking, securities, credit cards, consumer finance, asset management, and leasing. The Group aims to be the world's most trusted financial group through close collaboration among its operating companies, responsive service to the financial needs of clients, and a commitment to shared and sustainable growth. MUFG's Americas operations, including offices in the United States, Latin America, and Canada, provide a broad range of commercial and investment banking, markets, securities, and transaction banking services to corporations, financial institutions, governments, and institutional investors. With a long-standing presence in the region, MUFG combines global strength with local insight to support clients across industries and markets. About MUFG and MUFG AmericasMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) is one of the world's leading financial groups. Headquartered in Tokyo and with over 360 years of history, MUFG has a global network with approximately 2,000 locations in more than 40 countries. The Group has about 150,000 employees and offers services including commercial banking, trust banking, securities, credit cards, consumer finance, asset management, and leasing. The Group aims to "be the world's most trusted financial group" through close collaboration among our operating companies and flexible response to all of the financial needs of our customers, serving society, and fostering shared and sustainable growth for a better world. MUFG's shares trade on the Tokyo, Nagoya, and New York stock exchanges. For more information, visit https://www.mufg.jp/english. MUFG's Americas operations, including its offices in the U.S., Latin America, and Canada, are primarily organized under MUFG Bank, Ltd. and subsidiaries, and are focused on Global Corporate and Investment Banking, Japanese Corporate Banking, and Global Markets. MUFG is one of the largest internationally-headquartered financial institutions in the Americas. For locations, banking capabilities and services, career opportunities, and more, visit https://www.mufgamericas.com/. Media Contact: Alicia Faugier[email protected] SOURCE MUFG Bank, Ltd. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), one of the 10 largest global financial groups, proudly announces its participation in the successful $3... Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), one of the 10 largest global financial groups*, today announced that its registered broker-dealer MUFG... Banking & Financial Services Oil & Energy Utilities Financing Agreements Do not sell or share my personal information:
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Voice AI startup ElevenLabs appoints Alexander Holt its field CTO
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/startups/voice-ai-startup-elevenlabs-appoints-alexander-holt-its-field-cto/articleshow/131590651.cms
Time Published: 2026-06-08T14:31:19Z
Full Content:
(Catch all the Technology News News, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) ...more Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Other useful Links Top Calculators Top Slideshow Top Story Listing Top Prime Articles Top Definitions Top Commodities Private Companies Top Market Pages Latest News follow us on Download ET App:
--------------------------------------------------

Title: The women running Europe in 2026
URL: https://fortune.com/2026/06/08/the-women-running-europe-2026-mpw/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T13:52:34Z
Full Content:
Europe might like to think of itself as a global leader in gender equality. Yet when it comes to corporate power, the picture is less flattering. Women still lead only a small minority of the continent’s largest companies. In Fortune’s 2025 ranking of Europe’s 500 biggest businesses, just 38 companies—7.6% of the total—had female chief executives. That lack of representation is reflected in Fortune Most Powerful Women list. Now in its 29th year, the ranking recognizes the world’s most influential female business leaders. Of the 100 women featured this year, only 20 are based in Europe, with France and the U.K. accounting for the lion’s share (six each). For the women who do make the cut, their roles offer a revealing look at where power and influence are concentrated across the continent. Rather than leading a wave of newer tech companies—like comparable U.S. lists—many sit at the helm of businesses that have long formed the backbone of Europe’s economy: banks, energy groups, telecommunications operators, and luxury houses. This year’s ranking also shows just how often a finance background serves as a route to the top. Seven of the women featured have served in senior finance roles, including chief financial officer positions, reflecting the premium European companies place on capital allocation and operational discipline. Another striking theme is the route these women took to power. Few are founders. Instead, most built their careers inside large multinational organizations, often spending decades climbing the ranks before reaching the corner office. Their careers span continents and industries, but they share a common trait: deep institutional expertise. In an era that often celebrates disruption, Europe’s corporate landscape still tends to reward experience and operational excellence. The women on this list oversee hundreds of billions of euros in annual revenue and employ millions of people around the world. Many lead institutions that are more than a century old yet are the first women ever to occupy the top role. Their success reflects genuine progress. But the fact that so many are still breaking “firsts” suggests that Europe still has a way to go. Botín has been at the helm of Banco Santander for more than a decade, taking over from her father in 2014. She has guided the bank through a challenging period for European lenders, marked by low interest rates, tighter capital requirements, and rapid technological change, while significantly expanding Santander’s international footprint. Under the 65-year old’s leadership, Santander has pursued a series of major deals, including the sale of much of its Polish business, the roughly £2.7bn acquisition of TSB in the U.K, and the $12.2bn takeover of Webster Financial in the U.S. These moves have strengthened Santander’s position as one of Europe’s leading banking groups. Beyond traditional banking, Botín has also championed innovation and entrepreneurship. Through initiatives such as Santander X and the bank’s investments in digital and blockchain technology, she has pushed Santander to support start-ups, scale-ups, and the wider innovation ecosystem—alongside its core banking business. She serves on the board of Coca-Cola and on the advisory board of MIT. An engineer by training, O’Neil became BP’s first female chief executive in the company’s 116-year history—and the first woman to lead any of the world’s five largest oil majors. Her appointment in 2026 marked the first time BP hired an external candidate for the top role. Prior to this, O’Neil spent 23 years at ExxonMobil and served as CEO of the Australian oil and gas company, Woodside Energy, where she led the merger with BHP’s petroleum division—doubling the company’s fossil fuel production. The 55-year-old from Colorado is now tasked with reviving BP’s performance, restoring investor confidence, and steering the company’s strategy back toward profitable oil and gas expansion. MacGregor has led ENGIE since 2021, bringing more than three decades worth of experience in the energy industry, including senior roles at TechnipFMC, Technip Energies, and Schlumberger. At the time of her appointment, she was the only female CEO in France’s CAC-40 stock index. The French utility company reported €71.9bn ($83.5bn) in revenue in 2025, down from the previous year. A landmark moment in MacGregor’s tenure came in 2026 when ENGIE completed its acquisition of U.K. Power Networks, one of the UK’s largest electricity distribution operators. The deal significantly expands ENGIE’s regulated infrastructure footprint and marks the company’s next phase of growth as demand for electrification accelerates across Europe. MacGregor is an advocate of diversity and has spoken about advancing the role of artificial intelligence in accelerating Europe’s low-carbon energy future. She also serves as an independent director on Microsoft’s board. Born in France to Bulgarian parents, Brachlianoff became CEO of Veolia in 2022 after spending nearly two decades rising through the ranks of the Paris-based utility giant. She joined the company in 2005 as a special adviser in its waste solutions division and went on to hold a series of senior leadership roles across France and the U.K. Under her leadership, Veolia has continued to strengthen its position as a global leader in water, waste, and energy management. The company reported revenue of €44.3 billion ($51.6 billion) in 2025, exceeding its initial guidance. A key feature of Brachlianoff’s strategy has been expanding Veolia’s presence in North America and investing in high-value environmental technologies. Over the past year, the group moved to take full ownership of its water technologies business and advanced the acquisition of U.S. hazardous-waste specialist Clean Earth—significantly expanding Veolia’s footprint and capabilities across the North American market. Brachlianoff serves on the supervisory board of Hermès International, one of France’s most valuable luxury groups. Ortega became chair of Inditex in 2022, succeeding her father, Amancio Ortega, the billionaire founder of the Spanish fashion empire behind Zara, Massimo Dutti, Pull&Bear, and Bershka. As chair, she’s modernized the group’s approach, placing greater emphasis on digital growth and customer experience. Despite an increasingly competitive retail landscape, Inditex reported record sales of €39.9bn ($46bn) and net profit of €6.2bn ($7.2bn) in 2025. Ortega has worked to elevate Zara’s brand beyond fast fashion, through a series of creative collaborations and a stronger focus on design, helping the group distinguish itself from a growing wave of fast-fashion competitors. A graduate of Regent’s University London, Ortega spent more than 15 years working across the business, gaining experience through shop-floor operations, product development, and brand management. The Spanish businesswoman founded the Marta Ortega Pérez (MOP) Foundation in 2022. The organization has become known for bringing major international exhibitions in fashion and photography to her hometown of A Coruña, Spain. As president and CEO of Vattenfall, Borg leads one of Europe’s largest energy companies, overseeing around 21,000 employees across several markets. The 55-year-old has spent almost her entire career at Vattenfall, apart from a brief stint at the fintech company Klarna. She has held a handful of senior leadership roles at Vattenfall—including CFO—before taking the top job. Borg has emerged as one of Europe’s most prominent voices on the energy transition, arguing that sustainability and profitability must go hand-in-hand. Under her leadership, Vattenfall has accelerated investments in fossil-free electricity generation and low-carbon industrial projects, positioning Vattenfall as a key player in the region’s energy transition. After a three-decades-long career at Unilever, where she was the youngest ever female CHRO, Nair became the global CEO of luxury juggernaut Chanel in 2021. Born and educated in India before building a global career in the U.K. and Europe, Nair is the first woman of color to become chief and among the few women of color leading a global luxury brand. As CEO, Nair has invested heavily in innovation across beauty, skincare, and sustainability, and remained aggressive in tackling counterfeit products. Her strategy has paid off: despite a slowdown across the luxury industry, the 115-year-old family-owned Chanel has continued to outperform many of its peers, generating $9.3bn in revenue in its most recent full-year results. Nair has emphasized social impact, including increasing funding for Foundation Chanel to $100m to support programs focused on the economic empowerment of women and girls worldwide. Tetteroo has spent her entire career at Achmea, the Dutch insurance and financial services group, working her way up from finance director to divisional chief executive to chair of the executive board—a position she has held since 2021. The results speak for themselves. Achmea posted a net profit of €1.2bn ($1.4bn) in 2025. Yet Tetteroo appears equally focused on what comes next: she has made artificial intelligence central to how the business operates and has pushed sustainability from aspiration to measurable commitment, with impact investments now accounting for 12.2% of Achmea’s own investment portfolio, ahead of the 10% target the company set itself. When Rådström took the helm at Daimler Truck in 2024, she made history—becoming the first woman to lead the world’s largest commercial vehicle manufacturer. It was a fitting appointment. A trained engineer who had built her reputation at Scania before joining Daimler in 2021 to run Mercedes-Benz Trucks. The timing was not easy. The global transport industry has faced significant headwinds, and Rådström has had to balance near-term profitability with longer-term bets on battery-electric and hydrogen-powered trucks. So far, the business has held its ground. Daimler Truck generated revenue of more than €54bn in 2025, and under Rådström’s leadership, it remains one of the most consequential players shaping the future of how the world moves goods Garijo is chief executive of Merck Group, the German science and technology company with a history stretching back more than 300 years. A trained physician, she is the first woman to lead the business—a distinction that carries weight in an industry that has been slow to diversify at the top. She joined Merck in 2011 and worked her way through a series of senior roles before succeeding Stefan Oschmann as CEO. Since then, she has broadened the company’s reach across healthcare, life sciences, and electronics, while pushing up investment in research and development. Much of that growth has been driven by rising demand for Merck’s laboratory and bioprocessing technologies—tools that sit at the heart of pharmaceutical manufacturing and scientific research globally. Garijo has also used acquisitions to move the business into higher-growth territory, targeting capabilities in biotechnology and advanced materials. Beyond the balance sheet, she has become one of Europe’s most prominent voices on diversity in science and corporate leadership. Delle Valle has spent three decades at Vodafone, joining in 1994 and working her way from the CFO of its Italian segment to European CFO and eventually group CFO in 2018—before being appointed CEO in 2023, becoming one of just ten female bosses leading a FTSE 100 company at the time. Delle Valle has pushed through major portfolio changes—selling assets, consolidating operations across key European markets, and striking one of the sector’s most significant deals: the £15bn merger with Three UK, which closed in May 2025. The combined business, now trading as VodafoneThree, has committed to investing £11bn over the next ten years to build what it describes as one of Europe’s most advanced 5G networks. Orlopp took over as CEO of Commerzbank in 2024, after more than a decade rising through the ranks at Germany’s second-largest lender—most recently as chief financial officer. She is the first woman to run the bank in its 156-year history. She didn’t get long to settle in. In 2026, Italy’s UniCredit came knocking with a €39bn takeover bid, having built up a stake of more than 30% in the bank. Commerzbank declined the offer, arguing it didn’t come close to reflecting what the business was actually worth. Orlopp’s response was to go on the offensive, raising profitability targets and announcing plans to cut around 3,000 jobs by the end of the decade, essentially making the case that Commerzbank doesn’t need rescuing. It has been a baptism of fire. The takeover battle has turned Orlopp from a well-regarded finance executive into one of the most watched banking bosses in Europe. When Kirkby took over as chief executive of BT Group in February 2024, her focus was on slimming down the operation while pouring money into the fibre and 5G networks that the U.K.’s digital future runs on. Two years later, BT’s 5G+ network now reaches around 73% of the U.K. population, and Openreach is on track to pass full-fibre broadband to more than 25 million homes and businesses by the end of 2026. Despite a tough competitive environment and some weakness in its international arm, BT posted a pre-tax profit of roughly $1.9bn in fiscal 2026 — up 8% on the year before. Investors have taken notice. By May 2026, BT’s share price had more than doubled since she took the helm—a remarkable turnaround for a company that had long frustrated the market. Heydemann is the first woman ever to hold the CEO role at Orange. After graduating from France’s prestigious École Polytechnique and École Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées, she began her career in 1997 at Boston Consulting Group as an analyst. Heydemann has also held senior roles at Schneider Electric France and Alstom. She has served on Orange’s board since 2017 and chairs its strategic committee, playing a central role in governance and succession planning. As CEO, Heydemann has guided Orange to stable growth in core markets and played a key role in the company’s ESG efforts. The French telecoms giant reported full-year 2025 revenues of €40.3bn ($46.8bn) a 0.9% increase year-on-year. Senequier founded Ardian in 1996 with a vision of building a different kind of private investment firm—one that prioritized long-term value creation and employee ownership. Three decades later, that vision has transformed Ardian into one of Europe’s largest private markets investors. In 2026, Ardian surpassed $200bn in assets under management, cementing its position among the industry’s global leaders. Ardian has also maintained strong fundraising momentum, attracting more than $20 billion in new capital for the third consecutive year in 2025. One of just seven women admitted to France’s prestigious École Polytechnique in 1972, Senequier built her career by breaking barriers in traditionally male-dominated industries. That pioneering streak is reflected in Ardian’s ownership structure, which Senequier designed specifically to give employees a direct stake in the firm’s success. Gorman has served as CFO of Shell since 2022, capping a career that has spanned more than two decades at the energy giant. The financier started in trading before moving through mergers and acquisitions, treasury, and senior finance roles across Shell’s upstream and shale businesses. As finance chief, Gorman has played a central role in driving Shell’s focus on capital discipline and shareholder returns. Since 2022, the company has delivered more than $5bn in structural cost reductions while maintaining a strong balance sheet and generating significant cash flow. In 2025, Shell returned more than half of its operating cash flow to shareholders, and by early 2026 had completed 18 consecutive quarters of share buybacks worth at least $3bn. With Shell doubling down on oil and LNG at a time when many investors are scrutinizing the pace of the energy transition, Gorman has had to explain and defend its strategy to the market. Manz joined Nestlé as chief financial officer in March 2024 at a pivotal moment for the company. Within 18 months, she found herself navigating both an unexpected CEO transition and a sweeping strategic overhaul at the world’s largest food and beverage group. The former London Stock Exchange Group CFO has played a central role in communicating Nestlé’s turnaround plan to investors, helping shape a strategy focused on four core growth areas: coffee, pet care, nutrition, and food and snacks. As the company works to reignite growth in an increasingly competitive market, Manz has been central to keeping the group’s transformation on track. There were early signs of progress in 2025. Organic growth accelerated to 3.5%, up from 2.2% the previous year, while free cash flow exceeded guidance. Although reported sales and net profit declined, Manz has consistently argued that Nestlé remains in the early stages of its transformation and that the benefits of the overhaul should become increasingly evident as momentum builds through 2026. Arnault has spent more than two decades building her career within LVMH, the luxury empire founded by her father, Bernard Arnault. After joining the group in 2000, she rose through a series of senior leadership roles and, in 2019, became the youngest member—and only the second woman—to join LVMH’s executive committee. In 2023, Arnault was appointed chairman and chief executive of Christian Dior Couture. The fashion house had been among the luxury industry’s standout performers, with revenues estimated by HSBC to have quadrupled to €9.5 billion between 2017 and 2023. Since taking the helm, however, Arnault has had to navigate a tumultuous environment. Dior, like much of the luxury sector, has faced slowing demand and growing consumer resistance to years of price increases. Her tenure has also been tested by scrutiny of labor practices within parts of Dior’s supply chain. In 2026, the company agreed to settle an Italian investigation into subcontractors without admitting wrongdoing, drawing unwelcome attention to the brand’s operations. As Bernard Arnault’s eldest child, she remains widely regarded as the frontrunner to one day lead LVMH itself. In the meantime, she has made clear that her ambitions extend beyond the balance sheet—she is a vocal champion of emerging design talent through the LVMH Prize, one of fashion’s most prestigious awards for young designers. As head of international at BlackRock, Lord oversees operations across more than 75 countries, with around 10,000 people managing $3.3tn in client assets outside North America. BlackRock reported annual revenue of $23.5bn for fiscal 2025. It is a role she has spent more than a decade building toward. The former Morgan Stanley and Citigroup executive joined BlackRock in 2013, built its Europe, Middle East and Africa business from the inside, then relocated to Hong Kong to run Asia-Pacific. In Asia, she pushed the firm’s sustainable investing ambitions into new territory, launching climate-focused ETFs in Japan and Singapore at a moment when regional appetite for such products was still taking shape. Kreis has served as chief financial officer of DHL Group since 2017 and was, at the time of her appointment, the only woman on the company’s executive board. A physicist by training, with an MBA from INSEAD, she began her career at McKinsey & Company before moving to private equity firm Apax Partners. She joined Deutsche Post DHL in 2004, making her way through the upper ranks of one of the world’s largest logistics companies. As a child, Kreis dreamed of becoming an astronaut—a career ambition she later joked was cut short by her need for glasses. The German businesswoman described herself as “curious, collaborative and pragmatic”—qualities that have served her well as she helped steer DHL through pandemic-era supply chain disruptions, geopolitical tensions, and shifting global trade patterns. Under her financial leadership, the logistics giant delivered earnings growth in the second quarter of 2025 despite continued uncertainty across international markets.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: BlackRock CIO Rick Rieder Sees Sustained Stock Market Bull Run, Names One Equity Group Flashing Solid Fundamentals
URL: https://dailyhodl.com/2026/06/08/blackrock-cio-rick-rieder-sees-sustained-stock-market-bull-run-names-one-equity-group-flashing-solid-fundamentals/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T11:45:46Z
Description: BlackRock chief investment officer Rick Rieder believes that the bull run in US equities will continue, driven by higher earnings estimates. In a new interview at the CNBC CEO Council Summit, Rieder says the market is in the midst of an “extraordinary period …
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Blue Owl, Ares Court Mexico’s $500 Billion Pension Fund Windfall
URL: https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/blue-owl-ares-court-mexicos-500-billion-pension-fund-windfall
Time Published: 2026-06-08T11:29:08Z
Description: In Mexico City, the executives have arrived from the likes of Blue Owl Capital Inc., Ares Management Corp. and Golub Capital, all seeking a rare prize: a large pot of untapped money.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Bitcoin ETF Outflows June 2026: Record $1.72B Weekly Exit
URL: https://bitcoinfoundation.org/news/crypto-etfs-news/etf-outflows-june-2/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T10:48:23Z
Full Content:
On June 8, outflows from spot crypto ETFs resumed. We explain how investors are behaving in this segment. U.S. spot bitcoin (BTC) ETFs posted $1.72B in net outflows for the week ending June 6, 2026. This is the largest weekly outflow since February 2025. Hot topic: Bitcoin Bear Market Losses Put BTC’s Bottom Case to Test Bitcoin ETF flows June 2026 continue a persistently negative trend for the fourth consecutive week. Over this period, investors have withdrawn a total of $5.4B from BTC▼$61,690.00 ETFs. BlackRock’s IBIT led the outflows, losing $1.34B for the week. Ethereum (ETH) ETFs also remain under pressure, with weekly outflows of $168M and $880 million over four weeks. Analysts link bitcoin ETF outflows June 2026 to macroeconomic factors. Strong US jobs data significantly reduced expectations for an imminent Fed rate cut. This made yield-bearing bonds more attractive compared to “non-yielding” bitcoin (BTC). Geopolitical uncertainty surrounding Iran also intensified risk-off sentiment across markets. The Crypto Fear & Greed Index fell to 8 points, the lowest level since April 1 and deep into “extreme fear” territory. Read more: BlackRock vs Fidelity — Who Controls the Future of Bitcoin ETFs? Despite the outflows, bitcoin showed a slight recovery over the weekend. The price briefly rose to $64,000 and settled around $63,000. Analysts call this a classic oversold relief rally following last week’s sharp 15% drop. At the time of publication, bitcoin trades at approximately $63,100. The coin is up 1% over the past 24 hours but has lost more than 13% over the past seven days. Experts expect pressure on ETFs may continue into early June, but stabilization or a flow reversal could occur closer to mid-month due to seasonal factors and potential macro relief. For now, bitcoin ETF flows latest June 2026 remain one of the main negative drivers for BTC’s price and the broader market. Learn more: Best Crypto ETF Contracts for 2026 — Which ETFs Will Dominate Trading This Year? Crypto journalist and content creator specializing in market analytics, regulatory developments, and the social impact of cryptocurrency. With experience at BeInCrypto and Cointelegraph, she covers both breaking news and creative… American musician Garrett Dutton, known by his stage name G. Love, lost 5.9 BTC▼$61,690.00 worth... Bitcoin price dropped 14% over the past week as on-chain analysts flagged the biggest short-term... As the crypto market’s prolonged slide continues, bitcoin holders are feeling the pain. The... When May 2026 arrives, changes across Ethereum go deep into its bones. Instead of just small... The Bitcoin Foundation editorial team gathered fresh analyst opinions on the leading... Right now, in 2026, money across the world looks nothing like it did before. Far from just a... Your trusted source for cryptocurrency news, market analysis, and blockchain insights.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Morgan Stanley’s Galaxy deal points to Bitcoin’s next institutional test: lending collateral
URL: https://cryptoslate.com/morgan-stanleys-galaxy-deal-points-to-bitcoins-next-institutional-test-lending-collateral/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T07:04:58Z
Full Content:
Follow the latest crypto headlines, top categories, and market-moving stories. Explore crypto prices, rankings, sectors, and ecosystem data. Track prediction markets, category trends, live odds, and reviewed market sites. Track crypto legislation, official sources, jurisdictions, status changes, and related coverage. Explore guide series, playbooks, and educational content across crypto. Explore WhiteBIT’s Institutional Playbook, a 3-part guide series on exchange due diligence, crypto-as-a-service, and token listing strategy for institutional teams. Explore why savvy investors borrow against crypto instead of selling, with insights on liquidity, capital preservation, and portfolio strategy. Browse trusted reviews across exchanges, casinos, wallets, cards, and more. Discover crypto companies, people, and products across the industry. Company resources, help, legal information, and ways to follow CryptoSlate. Morgan Stanley’s Galaxy deal shows the next phase of institutional crypto adoption is moving beyond ETF access and into collateral markets. Morgan Stanley announced on June 5 that eligible wealth management clients can now lend Bitcoin, Ethereum, or Solana to Galaxy Digital and receive shares of spot crypto exchange-traded products in return. Galaxy will coordinate an in-kind creation with an authorized participant, then deliver ETP shares directly into the client's chosen account. Onboarding timelines that previously exceeded 4 weeks could fall by up to 75%. For Morgan Stanley-referred clients, Galaxy has lowered the minimum transaction size from $25 million to $5 million. US-traded spot Bitcoin ETFs recorded a historic $4.4 billion in net outflows over 13 consecutive weeks, extending into early June. Bitcoin has fallen roughly 53% from its October 2025 all-time high near $126,200 and briefly touched $60,000 this week. Against that backdrop, Morgan Stanley's arrangement offers wealth clients direct holding of coins that enter the bank's portfolio machinery and become marginable, reportable, and accessible to the same infrastructure that already supports securities lending, margin accounts, and private banking. The SEC's approval of in-kind creations and redemptions for crypto ETPs in July 2025 removed the central structural obstacle. That change permitted authorized participants to create and redeem spot crypto ETP shares using underlying crypto assets, moving the plumbing closer to how commodity ETPs already function. Galaxy can now take a client's BTC, use it to create ETP shares in kind, and deliver those shares without a taxable sale of the underlying asset, a workflow that would have required a cash conversion round trip under the prior rules. Morgan Stanley limits its role to referrals and client education, and Galaxy supervises onboarding and bears the crypto operational exposure. That division keeps Morgan Stanley on the regulated-securities side of the interaction, while Galaxy bears the operational exposure to crypto. Outside crypto wealth, previously held in self-custody or on an exchange, moves into a bankable portfolio, where it can serve as collateral for margin and integrate with reporting and lending services. Morgan Stanley's arrangement sits within a broader institutional divergence about which form of crypto exposure banks can safely recognize, and three models are now running in parallel. The first is ETP collateral, which is the most bank-friendly form, since banks understand how to price, custody, margin, and liquidate a registered security. JPMorgan moved here first, accepting BlackRock's IBIT shares as collateral for loans before expanding further. The Morgan Stanley/Galaxy arrangement extends this model by converting crypto held outside the bank into ETP shares that slot into existing wealth-management, margin, and lending workflows. The second model is direct crypto collateral, representing the bigger structural leap. JPMorgan planned to allow institutional clients to pledge BTC and ETH directly against loans by year-end 2025, with third-party custodians holding the pledged assets. The bank has not publicly confirmed a live product, and the status is still based on reported plans. If operational, it would treat BTC and ETH the way banks already treat publicly traded stocks in a margin account, with real-time valuation, haircuts, and automated margin calls. A loan originated at 50% loan-to-value becomes a 71% LTV loan after a 30% Bitcoin drawdown. At a 50% drawdown, that same loan hits 100%, resulting in full collateral wipeout. The $1.8 billion in forced crypto liquidations recorded on June 3 alone, the largest single-day figure since February 2026, illustrates what leverage produces in a fast market. The third model, tokenized collateral substitution, may prove to be the most durable. Banks prefer tokenized Treasuries or money market funds as the collateral leg, while crypto stays as the traded risk asset. On Apr. 28, OKX, BlackRock, and Standard Chartered launched a framework that allows institutional clients to post BlackRock's BUIDL tokenized Treasury fund as yield-bearing margin collateral on OKX, with Standard Chartered serving as the first G-SIB custodian in such an arrangement. Clients earn yield on collateral they would otherwise leave idle, and Standard Chartered handles regulated off-exchange custody, keeping assets segregated from the exchange's own holdings. Standard Chartered's off-exchange model with OKX means crypto-native trading venues need a regulated G-SIB wrapper to attract the most cautious institutional capital. BNY is building its digital asset platform by combining custody, collateral management, financing, payments, and 24/7 liquidity rails, positioning it as the infrastructure substrate on which crypto lending and tokenized asset markets will run. Market-moving headlines and context delivered every morning in one tight read. Free. No spam. Unsubscribe any time. Citi has framed its role around settlement, custody of stablecoin reserves, and crypto ETF custody services, claiming the plumbing. Every major bank is competing to control the wrapper, the custodian, the collateral agent, or the servicing infrastructure through which Bitcoin flows. In the bull case, regulatory clarity and stronger custody controls normalize the use of BTC and ETH as pledged collateral for institutional borrowers. Citi's June 2026 tokenization report puts global tokenized assets at roughly $17 billion today, with a 2030 bull-case forecast of $8.2 trillion. If that trajectory holds, crypto collateral becomes a routine feature of bank lending, tokenized Treasuries grow as the preferred institutional margin asset, and Bitcoin becomes more useful as a balance-sheet instrument. The plumbing that Morgan Stanley and Galaxy are assembling gets extended across private banking at scale, pulling self-custodied wealth into managed portfolios where it can be financed, reported, and deployed. In the bear case, volatility and operational risk keep banks anchored to the ETP wrapper. Direct Bitcoin collateral programs stay narrowly eligible and high-haircut, with limited reach beyond a narrow institutional base. Banks lean on tokenized Treasuries and deposits, with HSBC expanding its tokenized deposit service to US clients in April 2026, enabling 24/7 on-chain fund movement without public-chain settlement risk, while raw BTC lending remains confined to a small set of crypto-native lenders and hedge funds. Bitcoin ETF outflows become a recurring feature, since the regulated wrapper attracts capital that also leaves through the same door when sentiment shifts. Neither scenario eliminates the structural consequence of collateralization itself. Galaxy Research estimated that crypto-collateralized lending reached $73.59 billion in the third quarter of 2025, split among DeFi lending (55.7%), CeFi (33.1%), and crypto-collateralized stablecoins (11.2%). As banks expand from ETP collateral toward direct BTC and ETH lending, more of Bitcoin's price behavior will reflect institutional deleveraging cycles. The $4.4 billion in spot ETF outflows that pushed Bitcoin below $60,000 this week show how quickly regulated wrappers can transmit institutional selling. Add direct crypto-backed loan margin calls to that mechanism, and drawdowns carry more forced selling than the market has historically processed. Morgan Stanley's arrangement with Galaxy is a wealth-management funnel: outside crypto wealth enters the bank's portfolio machinery, becomes financeable and reportable, and becomes more correlated with whatever causes institutional investors to reduce risk. Bitcoin adoption becomes integrated into the same collateral loops that govern every other asset class, with all the structural upside and deleveraging exposure that entails. Gino Matos is a law school graduate and a seasoned journalist with six years of experience in the crypto industry. His expertise primarily focuses on the Brazilian blockchain ecosystem and developments in decentralized finance (DeFi). Explore related reporting by asset, place, or topic. A Missouri man's guilty plea links a Danbury kidnapping to the same human-targeting pattern already visible in France. Bitcoin declined as AI-linked stocks and expected tech IPOs drew capital away from a market already vulnerable to leverage. A potential mega-IPO wave led by OpenAI, SpaceX, and other AI giants could reignite risk appetite across markets, while also testing whether Bitcoin still holds its role as Wall Street’s favorite high-beta trade. The family’s ventures out-earned major digital asset companies while more than 1 million buyers sat on roughly $2.3 billion in losses. A Missouri man's guilty plea links a Danbury kidnapping to the same human-targeting pattern already visible in France. A potential mega-IPO wave led by OpenAI, SpaceX, and other AI giants could reignite risk appetite across markets, while also testing whether Bitcoin still holds its role as Wall Street’s favorite high-beta trade. The Clearing House plan gives banks 24/7 tokenized settlement while keeping customer money inside regulated deposit accounts. The Ethereum co-founder’s options-based synthetic asset proposal attacks a core DeFi failure mode: forced liquidation during crashes. The tradeoff is less sudden damage and a hedge that can drift. Stake DAO’s vsdCRV exploit shows how automated yield products can turn DeFi complexity into a black box for retail users. CryptoSlate may use AI tools to support research, editing, and production workflows. Published articles remain editorially reviewed by our team. Read our full AI usage disclaimer. Our writers' opinions are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of CryptoSlate. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice, nor does CryptoSlate endorse any project that may be mentioned or linked to in this article. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own due diligence before taking any action related to content within this article. Finally, CryptoSlate takes no responsibility should you lose money trading cryptocurrencies. For more information, see our company disclaimers. Clear reporting, sharper market context, and useful data for people navigating crypto without the noise. Follow CryptoSlate Daily signals. Zero noise. Get market-moving headlines, on-chain insights, and editor picks delivered in one tight read. We respect your privacy and will never share your email address. Subscription confirmed Daily signals, editor picks, and market context are on the way. You may unsubscribe at any time. Disclaimer: By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. CryptoSlate has no affiliation or relationship with any company or project unless explicitly stated otherwise. CryptoSlate is an informational website that provides news about coins, companies and products. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own diligence before making any investment decisions. CryptoSlate is not accountable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss incurred, alleged or otherwise, in connection to the use of or reliance on any content you read on the site. © 2026 CryptoSlate. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Tokenization firm Securitize clears key SEC hurdle for NYSE listing
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/securitize-gets-sec-nod-cantor-merger-nyse-listing
Time Published: 2026-06-08T04:34:47Z
Full Content:
The firm announced that the US securities regulator has declared its S-4 registration statement effective, bringing it closer to a SPAC merger with Cantor Equity Partners II. Real-world asset tokenization platform Securitize is one step closer to going public via a special acquisition company (SPAC) merger, after one of its filings was approved by the US Securities and Exchange Commission. The regulator approved the Form S-4 registration statement from Cantor Equity Partners II, a publicly traded special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) sponsored by an affiliate of Cantor Fitzgerald, and Securitize on Friday. Carlos Domingo, co-founder and CEO of Securitize, said the move marks “another important milestone for Securitize and for the broader institutional adoption of tokenization.” Shareholders are set to vote on June 29, and if approved, the combined company will list on the New York Stock Exchange as Securitize Corp, or “SECZ,” giving investors access to one of the largest real-world asset tokenization companies in the world. Securitize has $4 billion in assets under management and offers tokenized funds in partnership with leading asset managers, including Apollo, BlackRock, BNY, VanEck and others. The firm reported a first-quarter revenue of $19.5 million, up 39% from the prior-year period. The NYSE signed a memorandum of understanding with Securitize in March as part of a broader effort to develop blockchain-based stock trading infrastructure for Wall Street. Securitize is the largest tokenization platform by market share. Source: RWA.xyz Tokenized real-world assets such as equities and US Treasuries have seen strong momentum recently, despite the broader crypto bear market. Related: SEC makes digital assets strategic priority through 2030 Total RWA onchain value hit a record high of $32 billion in May, excluding stablecoins, following an increase of around 220% over the previous 12 months. Almost half of the assets on-chain are tokenized US Treasuries, while around 16% are tokenized commodities, according to RWA.xyz. Tokenized stocks represent a small market share with just 4.8% or $1.5 billion. Ethereum and layer-2 networks remain the market leaders for tokenization, with more than 60% dominance combined. Magazine: Korea probes Polymarket users, crypto PACs sweep primaries: Hodler’s Digest More on the subject Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. All news, reviews, and analyses are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read our Editorial Policy.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: America Has a Massive Shortage of Mechanics and Electricians. Companies Are Spending Hundreds of Millions to Fix It
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4382812/posts
Time Published: 2026-06-08T03:09:11Z
Full Content:
Skip to comments. Posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind While investors focus on artificial intelligence, data centers, and advanced manufacturing, a growing crisis is emerging behind the scenes. The U.S. is running short of the skilled workers needed to keep those industries operating. Major employers including Ford Motor Company, along with organizations backed by Bloomberg Philanthropies, BlackRock, and Lowe’s, are now committing hundreds of millions of dollars to train the next generation of mechanics, electricians, and trade professionals.The spending surge highlights a growing reality: the future of America’s economy may depend as much on skilled tradespeople as it does on software engineers.Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Major employers including Ford Motor Company, along with organizations backed by Bloomberg Philanthropies, BlackRock, and Lowe’s, are now committing hundreds of millions of dollars to train the next generation of mechanics, electricians, and trade professionals.The spending surge highlights a growing reality: the future of America’s economy may depend as much on skilled tradespeople as it does on software engineers.Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Major employers including Ford Motor Company, along with organizations backed by Bloomberg Philanthropies, BlackRock, and Lowe’s, are now committing hundreds of millions of dollars to train the next generation of mechanics, electricians, and trade professionals.The spending surge highlights a growing reality: the future of America’s economy may depend as much on skilled tradespeople as it does on software engineers.Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The spending surge highlights a growing reality: the future of America’s economy may depend as much on skilled tradespeople as it does on software engineers.Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The spending surge highlights a growing reality: the future of America’s economy may depend as much on skilled tradespeople as it does on software engineers.Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Ford Says Technician Shortage Is Hurting CustomersEvery morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Every morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Every morning, Ford CEO Jim Farley checks the same number.How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson How many technician jobs remain unfilled across Ford dealerships nationwide?The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The answer is still around 5,000.While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson While the shortage has improved from pandemic-era levels, Ford says the gap continues to increase labor costs, slow repairs, and frustrate customers waiting for service.“Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Customers are feeling the pain,” Farley said.The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The problem has become serious enough that Ford is investing roughly $300 million this year alone to strengthen its skilled labor pipeline.One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson One of the company’s newest initiatives comes through a partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies in Detroit. Together, the organizations are contributing $5 million to expand automotive training programs for high school students, including the construction of new auto-repair facilities.The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The goal is ambitious: train 300 future mechanics over the next three years and place them directly into Ford dealership jobs after graduation.Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Farley believes the effort addresses a critical demographic challenge.“Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Most of our technicians are older. It is a real dilemma,” he said.A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson A Retirement Wave Is Hitting America’s Skilled WorkforceThe shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The shortage facing Ford reflects a much larger national trend.Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Many of America’s skilled trade workers are approaching retirement age, creating a significant labor gap just as demand is accelerating.According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson According to Associated Builders and Contractors, the construction industry alone needs approximately 349,000 additional workers this year to meet current demand.Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Electricians are among the most sought-after workers.The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The rapid expansion of AI infrastructure, data centers, semiconductor manufacturing, and energy projects has created intense competition for electrical talent across the country.As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson As billions of dollars flow into artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing facilities, companies increasingly need workers capable of building, maintaining, and operating those projects.Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Without enough skilled labor, many of these investments could face delays and higher costs.Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Why Investors Should Pay AttentionThe labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The labor shortage is becoming more than a workforce issue.It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson It is increasingly an economic and investment story.Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Companies across industries are competing for the same pool of workers, which can drive higher wages, project delays, and rising operating expenses.For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For automakers, technician shortages can affect customer satisfaction and dealership profitability.For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For industrial companies, construction firms, and data center operators, labor constraints may slow expansion plans.The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The shortage also creates opportunities.Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Businesses involved in workforce training, vocational education, apprenticeship programs, and skilled labor recruiting could benefit as public and private investment accelerates.Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Investors watching infrastructure spending, manufacturing reshoring, and AI development should pay close attention to workforce availability, which may become one of the biggest bottlenecks to future growth.Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Gen Z Is Showing New Interest in Blue-Collar CareersAfter years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson After years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson After years of declining interest in the trades, there are signs the trend may be reversing.Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Members of Generation Z are increasingly exploring careers that offer strong earning potential without the burden of student loan debt.School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson School districts in many areas are reviving shop classes and vocational programs that had largely disappeared over the past several decades.Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Many young workers are recognizing that skilled trades can provide stable careers, strong wages, and opportunities for entrepreneurship.That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson That shift is encouraging employers and philanthropic organizations to invest heavily in expanding training opportunities.Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Lowe’s Launches $250 Million Skilled Trades InitiativeAmong the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Among the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Among the largest commitments comes from the Lowe’s Foundation.The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The organization recently pledged $250 million to support skilled trades education and workforce development through 2035.Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Its goal is to help train 250,000 workers over the next decade.The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The initiative includes funding for additional instructors, mobile classrooms that can reach rural communities, and public awareness campaigns designed to highlight career opportunities in the trades.Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Lowe’s CEO Marvin Ellison believes too many Americans have been taught that success only comes through a traditional four-year college degree.“Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “Within our society, we’ve created a belief there’s only one pathway to be successful, and that is you have to go to college, you have to get a four-year degree,” Ellison said. “There are multiple pathways.”BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson BlackRock Targets Electrician ShortageThe BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The BlackRock Foundation is also making a major investment.Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Earlier this year, the organization announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs.A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers.The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The foundation hopes to help train approximately 12,000 electricians over the next three years.According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson According to Claire Chamberlain, BlackRock Foundation’s global head of social impact, the challenge is not a lack of interest among workers.Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Instead, training capacity has failed to keep pace with industry demand.“There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “There are interested workers, there are would-be workers, and jobs on the other side,” Chamberlain said. “It’s the training systems that are not offering the capacity that industry demands.”High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson High Schools Become the New Talent PipelineA key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson A key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson A key theme connecting many of these initiatives is earlier workforce development.Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Rather than waiting until adulthood, organizations are increasingly focusing on high school students.Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Bloomberg’s newest $90 million initiative will support programs across multiple states, funding classroom renovations, apprenticeship opportunities, and paid work experiences.Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Labor unions are also participating.The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters has committed apprenticeship slots specifically for students completing Bloomberg-supported programs.The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The union is also helping develop new carpentry courses and summer boot camps designed to expose younger students to skilled trade careers.Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Industry leaders believe earlier exposure leads to better long-term outcomes.“In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson “In a 30-year career, we’ve lost youth for the most productive time of their career,” said union executive board member Anthony Abrantes.The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Bigger PictureAmerica’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson America’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson America’s skilled labor shortage is becoming one of the most important workforce challenges facing the economy.As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson As companies invest trillions into artificial intelligence, infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy projects, success will depend on more than technology and capital.It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson It will require enough trained workers to build, maintain, and operate those investments.That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson That reality is driving an unprecedented wave of spending from corporations, philanthropies, and labor organizations.For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Society KEYWORDS: china; electricians; india; jobs; labor; mechanics; pakistan; shortage; techs; visas; workforce Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last 1 posted on 06/07/2026 8:09:11 PM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. 2 posted on 06/07/2026 8:28:05 PM PDT by VTenigma (Conspiracy theory is the new "spoiler alert") [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! 3 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:22 PM PDT by AZJeep (sane ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind In Feb 2014 this highly-skilled journeyman electrician got a lay-off notice from a small school district in Oregon, a job that I loved!I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. 4 posted on 06/07/2026 8:31:46 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. 5 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:31 PM PDT by BrexitBen [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college.Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. 6 posted on 06/07/2026 8:33:57 PM PDT by MinorityRepublican [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: VTenigma “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... 7 posted on 06/07/2026 8:36:28 PM PDT by catnipman ((A Vote For The Lesser Of Two Evils Still Counts As A Vote For Evil)) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From the article: The BlackRock Foundation... announced a $100 million commitment aimed at expanding skilled trades training programs. A significant portion of that funding will support electrician training programs in Texas, where rapid data center development has intensified demand for electrical workers. Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. 8 posted on 06/07/2026 8:39:58 PM PDT by T.B. Yoits [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. 9 posted on 06/07/2026 8:55:04 PM PDT by jimtorr [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 10 posted on 06/07/2026 8:57:42 PM PDT by cableguymn (Can't cancel all of us) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, 11 posted on 06/07/2026 9:20:51 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: AZJeep “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. 12 posted on 06/07/2026 9:25:47 PM PDT by Organic Panic [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: AZJeep +1 13 posted on 06/07/2026 9:38:25 PM PDT by MotorCityBuck (Keep the Change You Filthy Animal !) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. 14 posted on 06/07/2026 9:40:25 PM PDT by FLT-bird [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. 15 posted on 06/07/2026 9:50:44 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. 16 posted on 06/07/2026 9:56:45 PM PDT by HKMk23 (https://youtu.be/LTseTg48568) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. 17 posted on 06/07/2026 10:25:37 PM PDT by Red6 [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: cableguymn Cars have become basically CNC machines on wheels in many respects. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? 18 posted on 06/07/2026 10:44:32 PM PDT by Mogger ( 7th generation Vermonter, refugee in New Hampshire hoping NH remains sane.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 10 | View Replies] To: PROCON Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. 19 posted on 06/08/2026 3:36:59 AM PDT by riverrunner [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. 20 posted on 06/08/2026 4:23:14 AM PDT by maddog55 (The only thing systemic in America is the left's hatred of it!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson For investors, the message is clear: while AI may dominate headlines, the workers who install the wiring, repair the equipment, and keep the economy running could become just as critical to America’s next growth cycle. Click here: to donate by Credit Card Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Or here: to donate by PayPal Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794 Thank you very much and God bless you. Thank you very much and God bless you. No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules. The best jobs are fleet mechanics for hourly plus benefits but are harder to get. Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid. It was the media/education establishment which claimed that the only way to success is to go to college. Only now, young people are finally getting the message that being good electrician beats the earning power of some gender studies BS. As a matter of fact, great skilled trades beat even lots of useful degree holders! I received unemployment of course and kept applying for similar work.After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. After 6 months of not even getting an interview I finally got the message; who's going to hire a 62 year old electrician even with my vast experience & knowledge?As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. As it turned out no one.So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. So I retired.I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. I do though encourage youngsters to get into the trades, it's great work with top pay but have a back-up plan when you get older. U.S. universities are insanely expensive propaganda centers. Most undergraduate degrees are worthless. Student loan debt is off-the-charts. Trade schools are cheap, and give real-life vocations. Employers are begging for people in the trades. Easier to indoctrinate all of us if we ended up attending the university. “No one wants to be a flat rate tech (mechanic). Book times are ridiculous with no base rate pay. The investment in tools is steep, 1 good scanner is 5 grand plus subscription. New cars are electrical nightmares with all the modules.” indeed ... and most indie shops don’t pay mechanics anything when there is no work coming in ... Sounds like a great deal - train up for a profession only to get laid off in 5 years after the data centers are built. Then get dumped into a crowded field of unemployed electricians. A direct result of the push for everyone to go to college, whether there are jobs available or not. Former ford tech here Fords tech problem is ford and their dealers. Flat rate only works if it allows enough time to complete the job properly 6 minutes for anything is not enough time to find the car in the parking lot. And there was many labor times that were .1 of an hour 100 PERCENT BULLCRAP. I have been in mechanics, engineering, technical skills since I graduated with an industrial arts degree. I paid my way through college as a certified welder I Fresno. Those with those skills were replaced by cheap Mexicans and the pay is 50% lower than inflation for all these years. There is no shortage of skilled engineers and mechanics. There is a shortage of pay for those who know how to turn wrenches, “Skilled trades have always been in high demand and very well paid.” WERE paid well. Back in the 80s I made 25 an hour welding. Today, an entry lever welder makes the same. Not a single pay upgrade to catch up with inflation. I just lost my business even charging $150 an hour for tool and die work. Even that wasn’t enough to keep up with new expenses. But the pay of any intro level machinist is now worth less than what someone can make a grocery store. +1 The same thing would happen if we massively jacked up fees on H1Bs and OPTs. Companies would bring back the job training programs they ended a generation ago and would hire Americans. Technicians say sucky pay is hurting the profession. Took my car to the Dealership for diagnosis because they have the multi-thousand dollar scan tools and software that I don’t have. The enthusiastic young Mech Tech listened to me describe the problem and assured me he could suss it out for me and let’s just get the paperwork written up. At the end of the day my car was “ready,” so I picked it up. There was no diagnosis. They had cleared the codes and done some sort of higher-level reset of the computer. The codes were cleared, and I was able to get it through Smog Check immediately after leaving the Dealership. But 100 miles later, my Check Engine light is on, again, and I realized they’d done nothing. I’ve gotta believe my enthusiastic young Tech was overruled by Dealership Shop Management. THAT is why these jobs are going unfilled: NOBODY wants to put up with that crap. I can find someone with an idiot college degree in sociology/psychology, environmental sciences, Kinesiology, management, wymens studies, history or art on every street corner. Of course they all feel they deserve $100K+ a year. About the only place these folks can get their high paying jobs is with the federal government where a degree is a block to be checked for entry into certain career fields. But you can’t find a decent mechanic or electrician it seems even if looking for one long and hard. Why would anyone want to work for the pittance a dealership pays when they can troubleshoot, repair and calibrate industrial manufacturing and processing equipment for far better pay and benefits? Why didn’t you go into business for yourself. Independent electricians here charge 150 dollars an hour and are booked out for months. If cars and trucks went back to being cars and trucks instead of computers on wheels we wouldn’t have a mechanic problem. Today’s cars and trucks have way to much technology and it’s not good technology it sucks, plain and simple. Navigation: use the links below to view more comments. first 1-20, 21-28 next last Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Crypto Moves Into The Mainstream Of Vietnam’s Digital Economy
URL: https://bitcoinist.com/crypto-moves-into-the-mainstream-of-vietnams-digital-economy/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T00:00:24Z
Full Content:
Vietnam is planning to require that all domestic crypto trading — including transactions in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and stablecoins like USDT and USDC — be settled in Vietnamese dong, a rule that would effectively bar dollar-paired trades on licensed platforms. The requirement came out of a conference held in Hanoi on Friday, where officials from the State Securities Commission, the State Bank of Vietnam, and the Ministry of Public Security gathered alongside banks, securities firms, and blockchain industry groups to discuss the country’s path toward formal crypto regulation. Officials said all trading would eventually have to go through licensed virtual asset service providers, though investors would still be allowed to keep assets in personal wallets. Foreign investors would be permitted to open accounts and take part in the market, while domestic participation would initially be limited to those already holding crypto assets. Bui Hoang Hai, vice chairman of the State Securities Commission, said Vietnam is in a critical phase of building a legal framework for digital finance, including a pilot program for crypto-asset trading platforms under Government Resolution No. 05/2025/NQ-CP. He said the country has a real opportunity to pull in international capital, open up new business models, and strengthen its position in the regional fintech space — but only if the market is built on transparent rules, sound risk management, and strong protections for investors. Vietnam is not starting from zero. Data from the conference puts the country at seventh globally in the number of crypto users and fifth in transaction growth. In the Asia-Pacific region, digital asset transaction values climbed to around $2.4 trillion as of June 2025, according to Phan Duc Trung, chairman of the Vietnam Blockchain Association. He also pointed to the rise of Bitcoin exchange-traded funds as a sign that the market is drawing in more traditional investors — BlackRock alone is currently managing around $67 billion in Bitcoin ETF assets. Chris Chiew, a senior advisor at CAEX, told the conference that tokenization of real-world assets could widen access to investments by allowing large-value holdings in real estate, infrastructure, and commodities to be divided into smaller digital units and traded more easily. He said potential assets for tokenization include gold, industrial facilities, data centers, energy projects, and port systems. Global tokenized asset markets could reach $19 trillion by 2033, with Vietnam’s share projected at between $70 billion and $80 billion by 2030, based on industry figures presented at the conference. Featured image from Unsplash, chart from TradingView For updates and exclusive offers enter your email. Christian, a journalist and editor with leadership roles in Philippine and Canadian media, is fueled by his love for writing and cryptocurrency. Off-screen, he's a cook and cinephile who's constantly intrigued by the size of the universe. Bitcoin news portal providing breaking news, guides, price analysis about decentralized digital money & blockchain technology. © 2025 Bitcoinist. All Rights Reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Mark Cuban says small businesses are desperate for AI talent — and it's where job seekers should look first
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/mark-cuban-says-small-businesses-184500292.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T18:45:00Z
Description: The serial entrepreneur took to X this week to bang the AI will lead to more job creation drum.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Fidelity slashed its SpaceX minimum to $2,000 for retail investors — but the fine print can ban you from IPOs for life
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/fidelity-slashed-spacex-minimum-2-171500631.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T17:15:00Z
Description: Selling in the first 15 calendar days makes you a 'flipper,' and further strikes escalate to a permanent ban tied to your SSN.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Four Dublin swimming spots closed over poor water quality
URL: https://www.rte.ie/news/regional/2026/0607/1577213-beaches-dublin/
Time Published: 2026-06-07T15:09:05Z
Full Content:
Maggie Doyle Four popular swimming spots in Dublin are closed to bathers until at least Thursday, due to poor water quality after heavy rainfall. Dún Laoghaire-Rathdown County Council installed a prohibition notice at Seapoint beach yesterday following consultation with the HSE. In a statement, the council said this was after "updated sampling results" of the water. Three other locations with a prohibition notice are Blackrock Baths Shore, Corbawn Strand and the Forty Foot. The council said the ban on swimming at those four locations will remain in place until Thursday, pending further sampling. There are also a number of prior warning notices in place which advise people not to swim at five locations. They are Sandycove, Dún Laoghaire Baths, Coliemore Harbour, Killiney beach and Whiterock beach. The council added that it will keep the situation under review and that further sampling will take place at high tide on Tuesday 9 June - the results of which will be expected on Thursday. Follow@TheMaggieDoyle © RTÉ 2026. RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Media. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Images Courtesy of Getty Images.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: AI’s power race is shifting leverage from chipmakers like NVIDIA to the grid
URL: https://cryptoslate.com/biggest-ai-winner-is-the-power-company-not-nvidia/
Time Published: 2026-06-07T14:05:52Z
Full Content:
Follow the latest crypto headlines, top categories, and market-moving stories. Explore crypto prices, rankings, sectors, and ecosystem data. Track prediction markets, category trends, live odds, and reviewed market sites. Track crypto legislation, official sources, jurisdictions, status changes, and related coverage. Explore guide series, playbooks, and educational content across crypto. Explore WhiteBIT’s Institutional Playbook, a 3-part guide series on exchange due diligence, crypto-as-a-service, and token listing strategy for institutional teams. Explore why savvy investors borrow against crypto instead of selling, with insights on liquidity, capital preservation, and portfolio strategy. Browse trusted reviews across exchanges, casinos, wallets, cards, and more. Discover crypto companies, people, and products across the industry. Company resources, help, legal information, and ways to follow CryptoSlate. AI’s biggest bottleneck is no longer chips or talent, but electricity—and the companies controlling the grid now have the strongest hand in tech. AI has hit an electricity problem. Running it takes staggering amounts of power; demand in the US is climbing faster than the grid can keep up, and that's handing enormous leverage to the companies that generate and deliver it. On June 2, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas voted to overhaul how it admits large power users to the grid, wading through a backlog of data centers, crypto mines, and industrial sites all reaching for the same megawatts. That same week, lawmakers in Albany, New York, were racing to pass a one-year moratorium on new large-scale data centers, which could make the state the first in the country to pause the buildout outright. The companies training frontier models keep running into a wall built from copper, concrete, and regulatory patience. The beneficiary of all that demand is the unglamorous entity at the other end of the wire: the utility, the grid operator, the power producer that decides who gets electricity, when, and at what price. For most of the past decade, every conversation about AI revolved around software, and the most important constraint people were worried about was the supply of advanced GPUs. Now, the conversation has shifted to industrial economics, and the limiting inputs are land, generation capacity, water, high-voltage transformers, and local boards. Goldman Sachs expects US data center power demand to climb from 31 gigawatts in 2025 to 41 in 2026 and 66 in 2027, lifting data centers' share of US peak summer demand from 4.1% to 8.5% over the same stretch. However, the bank noted that only about 50% to 60% of the capacity scheduled over the next year or two is likely to arrive on time, due to delays and cancellations. Even when discounted, the grid is being asked to absorb in two years what it usually takes a decade to add. The International Energy Agency projects that data center electricity use will roughly double by 2030, while demand from AI-focused facilities will triple. Its report leans hard on the bottlenecks, from tightening supply chains for gas turbines and transformers to grid connections that take years and a rush toward on-site generation that mostly remains on paper. Power companies now have an unbelievable amount of leverage. A utility collects regardless of which company wins the race; all it needs is for the race to keep demanding more power. Regulated utilities earn returns on approved capital spending, so a wave of grid upgrades becomes a wave of rate-based revenue. Independent power producers sell into a tighter market but at higher prices. Grid operators, holding a finite stock of connection capacity, become the gatekeepers who decide which projects are viable. Texas shows how gatekeeping turns into rules. Under Senate Bill 6, ERCOT is now using a “pay your own way” model that loads interconnection costs onto large customers and forces them to stand down during emergencies, with a non-refundable $ 50,000-per-megawatt fee and steep deposits to weed out speculative claims. The strain is hard to overstate, since nearly 200 large users lined up in the first months of 2026 alone, together seeking a combined 438 gigawatts, more than five times what the entire state currently draws. New York's proposed pause approaches the same problem from the political flank, weighing AI data center growth against household bills, water use, and grid reliability. Electricity has become a rationed input, and the parties doing the rationing now have the strongest hand at the table. Market-moving headlines and context delivered every morning in one tight read. Free. No spam. Unsubscribe any time. The Bitcoin market is familiar with this bottleneck because it was the miners who first lived it. Mining built a business on cheap, interruptible power, using flexible load that switches off when the grid strains and soaks up surplus when prices crater. That's why Texas wrote its new demand-response programs around it, and why miners spent years chasing wasted watts into windy plateaus and hydro spillways where energy often sat stranded and was cheap. Some analysts go further and argue the grid should welcome that flexibility as a service, given how fast miners can curtail. That's almost the exact opposite of what AI wants and needs. Hyperscalers want steady, always-on power and long-term certainty, backed by jobs and national-competitiveness arguments that carry real political weight. When BlackRock warned this January that AI data centers could consume as much as 24% of US electricity by 2030, it effectively declared the cheap-power truce over. A CryptoSlate analysis comparing energy footprints across streaming, AI, and crypto reached a similar verdict, with miners now facing a tight squeeze as AI firms bid up the price of firm supply. The power company is now arbitrating that fight, and profiting from it whichever way it breaks. Should utilities build out generation and transmission to serve AI hyperscaler demand, ratepayers can end up absorbing part of the cost unless regulators ring-fence those expenses or compel large loads to cover their own share. The federal forecast already leans that way, with the EIA expecting US power use to set fresh records in 2026 and 2027. Residential prices have already increased 5% in 2026, with the sharpest increases landing along the East Coast. AI promised abstraction, intelligence rendered as weightless, infinitely copyable software. Its expansion has made electricity the scarce commodity that determines who gets to scale, who gets priced out, and who collects a check, no matter which company captures most of the market. The companies will keep chasing the headlines, while the power company keeps a steady hand on the meter. Bitcoin is -2.56% over the past 24 hours and currently sits at rank #1 by market cap. Right now, the total crypto market is valued at $2.13T with $89.38B in 24-hour volume. Bitcoin dominance sits at 57.96%. Explore the market Armed with a classical education and an eye for news, Andjela dove head deep into the crypto industry in 2018 after spending years covering politics. Explore related reporting by asset, place, or topic. The family’s ventures out-earned major digital asset companies while more than 1 million buyers sat on roughly $2.3 billion in losses. A Missouri man's guilty plea links a Danbury kidnapping to the same human-targeting pattern already visible in France. A potential mega-IPO wave led by OpenAI, SpaceX, and other AI giants could reignite risk appetite across markets, while also testing whether Bitcoin still holds its role as Wall Street’s favorite high-beta trade. Bitcoin declined as AI-linked stocks and expected tech IPOs drew capital away from a market already vulnerable to leverage. The AI spending frenzy that lifted tech stocks could become turn into an inflation shock that delays the liquidity cycle Bitcoin traders have been waiting for. Zcash developers say the flaw was patched before any known exploit, but the selloff shows how fragile trust can be around money built to stay private. CryptoSlate may use AI tools to support research, editing, and production workflows. Published articles remain editorially reviewed by our team. Read our full AI usage disclaimer. Our writers' opinions are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of CryptoSlate. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice, nor does CryptoSlate endorse any project that may be mentioned or linked to in this article. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own due diligence before taking any action related to content within this article. Finally, CryptoSlate takes no responsibility should you lose money trading cryptocurrencies. For more information, see our company disclaimers. Clear reporting, sharper market context, and useful data for people navigating crypto without the noise. Follow CryptoSlate Daily signals. Zero noise. Get market-moving headlines, on-chain insights, and editor picks delivered in one tight read. We respect your privacy and will never share your email address. Subscription confirmed Daily signals, editor picks, and market context are on the way. You may unsubscribe at any time. Disclaimer: By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. CryptoSlate has no affiliation or relationship with any company or project unless explicitly stated otherwise. CryptoSlate is an informational website that provides news about coins, companies and products. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own diligence before making any investment decisions. CryptoSlate is not accountable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss incurred, alleged or otherwise, in connection to the use of or reliance on any content you read on the site. © 2026 CryptoSlate. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Swimmers told to avoid nine south Dublin bathing spots after week of heavy rain
URL: https://www.thejournal.ie/swimmers-told-to-avoid-nine-south-dublin-bathing-spots-after-week-of-heavy-rain-7063129-Jun2026/
Time Published: 2026-06-07T13:30:44Z
Full Content:
We need your help now Support from readers like you keeps The Journal open. You are visiting us because we have something you value. Independent, unbiased news that tells the truth. Advertising revenue goes some way to support our mission, but this year it has not been enough. If you've seen value in our reporting, please contribute what you can, so we can continue to produce accurate and meaningful journalism. For everyone who needs it. Sign in. It’s quick, free and it’s up to you. An account is an optional way to support the work we do. Find out more. SWIMMERS HAVE BEEN told to avoid nine bathing spots in South County Dublin, after a week of heavy rain. Seapoint was newly added to Dún Laoghaire-Rathdown County Council’s list of prohibited bathing spots on Saturday. The notice will remain in place until next Thursday, 11 June. Advertisement Meanwhile, swimming bans at Blackrock Baths, Corbawn Strand and the Forty Foot have been extended until the same date. Prior notices for Coliemore Harbour, Sandycove, Dún Laoghaire Baths, Killiney Beach and Whiterock Beach will also remain until Thursday. Swimming spots in South County Dublin often become unsafe after a period of heavy rainfall, like that seen this week. Wastewater treatment infrastructure can become overwhelmed, which can result in raw sewage being discharged into the sea. The council will next test the water on Tuesday. Results will be available on Thursday, when notices will be updated. Readers like you are keeping these stories free for everyone... A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article. Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation. Learn More Support The Journal To embed this post, copy the code below on your site 600px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/swimmers-told-to-avoid-nine-south-dublin-bathing-spots-after-week-of-heavy-rain-7063129-Jun2026/?embedpost=7063129&width=600&height=460" ></iframe> 400px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/swimmers-told-to-avoid-nine-south-dublin-bathing-spots-after-week-of-heavy-rain-7063129-Jun2026/?embedpost=7063129&width=400&height=460" ></iframe> 300px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/swimmers-told-to-avoid-nine-south-dublin-bathing-spots-after-week-of-heavy-rain-7063129-Jun2026/?embedpost=7063129&width=300&height=460" ></iframe> Access to the comments facility has been disabled for this user Create an email alert based on the current article
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Infamous short seller's fraud conviction has spooked other shorters — and experts warn the industry may go silent
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/infamous-short-sellers-fraud-conviction-103000171.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T10:30:00Z
Description: Left’s guilty verdict is forcing a rethink across the short-selling world as activist strategies come under fire.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Swimmers warned off nine popular Dublin bathing spots until next week
URL: https://www.irishtimes.com/ireland/dublin/2026/06/07/swimmers-warned-off-nine-popular-dublin-bathing-spots-until-next-week/
Time Published: 2026-06-07T10:07:43Z
Full Content:
Bathers have been warned not to swim at nine popular swimming spots in Dublin due to heavy and persistent rainfall. One new and three extended prohibition notices have been put in place by Dún Laoghaire-Rathdown County Council. The ban, which was imposed on Saturday, is now affecting Seapoint, close to Dún Laoghaire, and will remain in place until Thursday. The no-swimming notice has also been extended at Blackrock Baths, Corbawn Strand and the Forty Foot. Prior warning notices in place for five other bathing areas are to last until Thursday covering Coliemore Harbour, Sandycove, Dún Laoghaire Baths, Killiney Beach and Whiterock Beach. In a statement the council outlined that “additional [water quality] sampling” is to be carried out. It said that due to the weather forecast of “heavy and persistent rain over the weekend and into early next week, and the increased risk of storm water overflows,” the warning notices have been issued. The council said the situation will be “monitored” over the weekend and tests are scheduled to take place at high tide 7am on Tuesday with results due on Thursday. [ Dún Laoghaire swimmers defiant despite water quality warning: ‘I’ve done worse things for me than swimming in the sea’Opens in new window ] Several of the bathing spots affected have been closed on numerous occasions in recent years due to water quality issues caused primarily by heavy rainfall. Last month the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) classed the water quality at Dún Laoghaire Baths as “poor” due to isolated pollution incidents such as storm water overflows in 2025. The agency said a bathing restriction/advisory notice had been issued. However, the council questioned the EPA’s stance and noted that over a three-year period to 2026 the water met “good” standards, and until the current prohibition testing indicated it was excellent and safe for swimming. Join The Irish Times on WhatsApp and stay up to date Sign up for push alerts to get the best breaking news, analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone Listen to In The News podcast daily for a deep dive on the stories that matter © 2026 The Irish Times DAC
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Private credit issuance drops 40% to $45B in Q2 2026 as defaults hit record highs
URL: https://cryptobriefing.com/private-credit-issuance-drops-q2-2026/
Time Published: 2026-06-07T06:26:56Z
Full Content:
Searching... A sharp pullback in private lending coincides with a record 6% default rate, but tokenized credit on-chain is quietly tripling. Share The private credit market just had its worst quarter in years. New loan issuance plummeted roughly 40% to $44.76B for the three months ending May 2026, down from $74.56B in Q1. The $44.76B in new issuance during the three months through May represents a dramatic contraction from the $74.56B booked in Q1 2026. Fundraising tells a similar, if slightly less dramatic, story. Private credit funds pulled in $45B in commitments during the first four months of 2026, according to Preqin data. That’s essentially flat compared to $44.5B during the same stretch in 2025. For context, the same period in 2023 saw $52.2B in commitments. The real alarm bell is defaults. Fitch reported that the US private credit default rate hit a record 6.0% in April 2026. Consumer products and healthcare sectors have been particularly hard hit. Major fund managers including BlackRock and Blackstone have reportedly faced significant redemption requests. The response has included asset sales and, in some cases, gating strategies to manage liquidity. While traditional private credit contracts, on-chain tokenized private credit is expanding rapidly. Active on-chain loans surpassed $14B by Q2 2026, representing a threefold increase from early 2025. That said, tokenized credit at $14B is still a fraction of the traditional market. Even at a reduced pace, traditional private credit moved $44.76B in new issuance in a single quarter. The risk is that tokenized credit inherits the same problems as its traditional counterpart. If default rates are climbing because borrowers genuinely can’t service their debt, putting the loan on a blockchain doesn’t change the underlying credit quality. Investors watching this space should track two things closely. First, whether traditional private credit’s default rate stabilizes or continues climbing past the current 6% record. Second, whether tokenized credit platforms maintain their underwriting discipline as they scale, or whether they repeat the classic mistake of loosening standards to chase growth. A sharp pullback in private lending coincides with a record 6% default rate, but tokenized credit on-chain is quietly tripling. Share The private credit market just had its worst quarter in years. New loan issuance plummeted roughly 40% to $44.76B for the three months ending May 2026, down from $74.56B in Q1. The $44.76B in new issuance during the three months through May represents a dramatic contraction from the $74.56B booked in Q1 2026. Fundraising tells a similar, if slightly less dramatic, story. Private credit funds pulled in $45B in commitments during the first four months of 2026, according to Preqin data. That’s essentially flat compared to $44.5B during the same stretch in 2025. For context, the same period in 2023 saw $52.2B in commitments. The real alarm bell is defaults. Fitch reported that the US private credit default rate hit a record 6.0% in April 2026. Consumer products and healthcare sectors have been particularly hard hit. Major fund managers including BlackRock and Blackstone have reportedly faced significant redemption requests. The response has included asset sales and, in some cases, gating strategies to manage liquidity. While traditional private credit contracts, on-chain tokenized private credit is expanding rapidly. Active on-chain loans surpassed $14B by Q2 2026, representing a threefold increase from early 2025. That said, tokenized credit at $14B is still a fraction of the traditional market. Even at a reduced pace, traditional private credit moved $44.76B in new issuance in a single quarter. The risk is that tokenized credit inherits the same problems as its traditional counterpart. If default rates are climbing because borrowers genuinely can’t service their debt, putting the loan on a blockchain doesn’t change the underlying credit quality. Investors watching this space should track two things closely. First, whether traditional private credit’s default rate stabilizes or continues climbing past the current 6% record. Second, whether tokenized credit platforms maintain their underwriting discipline as they scale, or whether they repeat the classic mistake of loosening standards to chase growth. All content is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. CryptoBriefing does not provide recommendations to buy, sell, or hold any asset or contract. See our Disclaimer & Risk Disclosure. © Decentral Media and Crypto Briefing® 2026. Sign in to your account Create your account Already have an account? Sign In Forgot your password? Sign In Daily news, analysis & market insights delivered free.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Great Irish road trips: A new book guides you through the best routes to travel in Ireland
URL: https://www.thejournal.ie/readme/book-about-travel-in-ireland-7047277-Jun2026/
Time Published: 2026-06-06T18:00:17Z
Full Content:
We need your help now Support from readers like you keeps The Journal open. You are visiting us because we have something you value. Independent, unbiased news that tells the truth. Advertising revenue goes some way to support our mission, but this year it has not been enough. If you've seen value in our reporting, please contribute what you can, so we can continue to produce accurate and meaningful journalism. For everyone who needs it. Sign in. It’s quick, free and it’s up to you. An account is an optional way to support the work we do. Find out more. Author Nicola Brady shares a chapter from her new book, Great Irish Road Trips, which is an essential guide to discovering Ireland’s most unforgettable journeys – from iconic coastal drives to hidden gems off the beaten track. Here, she outlines the best trip northwards from Leinster, towards the Cooley Peninsula, taking in sights like the Omeath Greenway, the ancient Hill of Faughart and stopping for the best seafood in The Glyde Inn… THIS LESSER-TRODDEN CORNER of the country is an excellent spot for a chilled-out drive, where you won’t be covering a huge amount of ground but will stop at lovely spots along the way. Bring a bike with you to cycle the Omeath Greenway; pause for a walk on the beach, and explore the ancient Hill of Faughart. But whatever you do, be sure to factor in a seafood feast at The Glyde Inn, right on the water’s edge with the Cooley Peninsula in the background. Great Irish Road Trips is out now. Gill Books Gill Books You could also start this route in Dublin, weaving up the north county coast through Rush, Lusk and Skerries. However, that’s one of those few routes that’s almost better by train, the railway line passing right alongside the shore (and even over the water itself, between Malahide and Donabate). So it’s probably better to head up the M1, and you’ll be in Drogheda in less than an hour. Need to know: - **Duration:** 1 day - **Distance:** 148km/92 miles - **When to go:** Winter, when the roads are quiet - **Start at:** Drogheda - **Finish at:** Drogheda Quick view: Day 1: Start off in Drogheda before driving up the Louth coast through Clogherhead and Blackrock, then circumnavigate the Cooley Peninsula before driving back down to Drogheda. Advertisement Before you set off from Drogheda, take some time to explore the museums that are right in the middle of town. The Millmount Museum is set inside a giant Martello tower, standing on top of a 3,000-year-old mound, which some believe to hold the burial remains of the warrior poet Amergin. Here, you’ll find plenty of wartime memorabilia, like muskets used in the Sieges of Drogheda and bayonets from the Battle of the Boyne. There’s also a scale model of the Battle of Waterloo, because the Duke of Wellington (who was born in Dublin) has family ties in Drogheda. Over in the former governor’s house, the Drogheda Museum Millmount has loads of quirky displays about the local area. There’s a room dedicated to eighteenth-century guild and trade banners, spaces replicating traditional homesteads and glass cabinets filled with vintage telephones, retro call cards and a Morse code machine. Elsewhere in the courtyard, there are artists’ studios where you can buy locally made pieces like knitwear, paintings and silk scarves. Hugh Delacy Bridge Roberto Rizzi Roberto Rizzi In the town itself, you can stroll around Highlanes Municipal Art Gallery, where there’s a rotating series of contemporary art exhibits. The space itself is beautiful, too, with stained-glass windows and an excellent café. Drogheda was once a walled city, and just down the road, you can see one of the few parts that’s still intact, the thirteenth-century tower of St Laurence’s Gate. There’s a little street food spot just around the corner, too. Back in the middle of town, St Peter’s Roman Catholic Church is well worth a visit – it’s an impressive building, yes, but it’s also the home of the preserved head of Oliver Plunkett. His head was thrown into a fire after he was hung, drawn and quartered in 1681, and later retrieved by his friends – you can still see the burn marks when you peek into the shrine. Once you’re ready to hit the road (and that sight may well make you want to leave town), head out on the R166 towards Termonfeckin, driving to Clogherhead. If you feel like stretching the legs, park up at the Clogherhead Cliff Walk just outside of the town. It’s a fairly short route, following the bumpy trail out along the shore, but you get fantastic views out over the water, with the Mourne Mountains in the distance. St Laurence's Gate, Drogheda. Avillfoto Avillfoto Otherwise, continue up the Coast Road, which passes right alongside the water with some scenic stops along the way – drive up to Dunany Point if you want a nice vantage point. You’ll soon be in Annagassan, which was the capital of Ireland in Viking times. At The Glyde Inn, you can take a virtual reality walk back in time with their Viking VR Experience, where you’ll step into the shoes of Bjorn the Bear to see what life was like at this time. Even if you don’t, it’s well worth a stop. At the front, The Glyde Inn is every bit the traditional pub, but at the back, it opens out to a seafood restaurant set right on the water. The chefs jump over the wall to forage for seaweed and samphire to put on the menu, and the seafood they serve up is as fresh as can be – think slippery razor clams, oysters and giant crab claws. If you’d rather have dinner here at the end of the day, simply drive back down this way instead of the route back down the M1. Back on the road, you’ll pass through Castlebellingham and up the Dundalk Road, diverting through Blackrock to get the best sea views. You’ll bypass Dundalk and then head over the Táin Bridge to reach the Cooley Peninsula. Start off by heading straight over the roundabout to the Hill of Faughart, which was the birthplace of St Brigid – they hold a procession here every year on Brigid’s Day, and you can visit St Brigid’s Well. But it also has fantastic views out over the peninsula, and though it hasn’t been excavated, is believed to be a hillfort dating back to the Bronze or Iron Age. Related Reads Life on the road: Our shared MS diagnoses forced us to finally start living Caroline Foran's new book: I wish I'd known sooner that self-compassion changes everything Pirate queens, powerbrokers & public servants: Anne Chambers on her life as an Irish biographer Monasterboyce High Cross and Round Tower. Jrp Studio Jrp Studio Follow the road you drove up, then turn left to drive the southern stretch of the peninsula on the R173. If you didn’t eat before, Carlingford Brewing Company is a great spot for a wood-fired pizza, or you could turn off just before to head down to Castlecarragh Bay Beach. If not, continue to Grange, then turn off to drive to Templetown Beach, a sheltered bay with excellent rock pooling. With wide sands, it makes for a great walking beach, even in the winter. Drive back up to meet the road you left, with the mountains rising in the distance, and then turn right to continue on the loop. Turn left onto the R176 and the road will take you right along the edge of Carlingford Lough, through the town of Carlingford itself. You’ll drive past the twelfth-century Carlingford Castle, with the mountain of Slieve Foye behind – some say it’s the sleeping giant Fiann Mac Cumhaill. You can visit the interior of the castle, which overlooks the harbour. After this point, the road takes you to Omeath, but there’s an alternative option – the Carlingford Lough Greenway. If you brought the bikes with you, hop out at Carlingford and cycle the almost 7km (4.3 miles) along the coast, for gorgeous views of the water – you’ll also stop right by the Hot Box Sauna Carlingford, where you can build up a sweat with a view of the water and the Mourne Mountains. Back in the car, drive up the R173 in the direction of Newry, but turn off at Ferry Hill to loop off the main route, zip over the border and drive up to the Flagstaff Viewpoint in Co Armagh. There, you’ll get an incredible view out over the countryside, down the mountains and over to the water. The road up is lovely, too – it’s narrow, but weaves through the forest until you reach the viewpoint, where there’s loads of parking. Flagstaff Viewpoint in Co. Armagh. MC Image MC Image From there, drive back down into the Republic, and you’ll pass by the Ravensdale Forest Recreation Area, where there are beautiful walking trails, including the short Ravensdale loop that’ll take you to the ancient standing stones. You can also take a detour here to head to the Proleek Dolmen, a megalithic tomb that seems to defy gravity. When you meet the old roundabout you started the loop on, you can turn right on the M1 to take the quick route back to Drogheda, or follow the same route if you want dinner in The Glyde Inn. If you’re doing the former, you can take a brief detour to head to Monasterboice High Cross and Round Tower, which was founded in the fifth century and has incredibly well-preserved crosses with historic carvings. From there, it’s just a 10-minute drive back into Drogheda. Nicola Brady is. Her new book, Great Irish Road Trips is out now, published by Gill Books. Readers like you are keeping these stories free for everyone... A mix of advertising and supporting contributions helps keep paywalls away from valuable information like this article. Over 5,000 readers like you have already stepped up and support us with a monthly payment or a once-off donation. Learn More Support The Journal To embed this post, copy the code below on your site 600px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/readme/book-about-travel-in-ireland-7047277-Jun2026/?embedpost=7047277&width=600&height=460" ></iframe> 400px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/readme/book-about-travel-in-ireland-7047277-Jun2026/?embedpost=7047277&width=400&height=460" ></iframe> 300px wide <iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/readme/book-about-travel-in-ireland-7047277-Jun2026/?embedpost=7047277&width=300&height=460" ></iframe> Access to the comments facility has been disabled for this user Create an email alert based on the current article
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Dycom is building a 49-acre fake town to train unskilled workers for $62K data center jobs
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/dycom-building-49-acre-fake-160000988.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T16:00:00Z
Description: As the AI boom drains the supply of skilled tradespeople, a debt-free career is opening up for anyone willing to grab it.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 'The fastest way to get rich quick is don't': Dave Ramsey's truth bomb for investors. His 3 wealth-building rules
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/fastest-way-rich-quick-dont-142500389.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T14:25:00Z
Description: Saving $40K in six months is commendable, but only if you put the money to work.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 74% of home buyers would consider a 50-year mortgage — experts say making monthly payments would be key
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/74-home-buyers-consider-50-140000807.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T14:00:00Z
Description: A TD Bank study found that most Americans would consider a 50-year mortgage if the option was made available to them, and Donald Trump has said the option is...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: How Closed-End Funds at a 12% Discount Can Turn $300,000 Into $30,000 a Year
URL: https://247wallst.com/personal-finance/2026/06/06/how-closed-end-funds-at-a-12-discount-can-turn-300000-into-30000-a-year/
Time Published: 2026-06-06T13:54:51Z
Full Content:
Personal Finance Equity CEFs at a 12% discount can generate $30,000 annually on $300,000, versus $857,000 needed at a conservative 3.5% dividend yield. A 12% CEF discount lets investors buy $1.00 of assets for $0.88, boosting effective yield and creating upside if the discount narrows over time. Only buy CEFs at a discount to NAV, cap each position at 20%, and verify on CEFConnect that distributions aren't primarily return of capital. Are you ahead, or behind on retirement? SmartAsset's free tool can match you with a financial advisor in minutes to help you answer that today. Each advisor has been carefully vetted, and must act in your best interests. Don't waste another minute; learn more here. Sending You to Google News in 3 © g0d4ather / Shutterstock.com For many single retirees, $30,000 per year on top of Social Security can help cover expenses such as property taxes, Medicare supplement premiums, groceries, and occasional travel. The amount of capital needed to generate that income depends largely on the yield of the investment portfolio, and the difference between high-yield and lower-yield strategies can be substantial. A $300,000 basket of equity closed-end funds (CEFs) purchased at an average 12% discount to net asset value and generating a blended 10% distribution yield on market price would produce approximately $30,000 in annual income. Generating the same income from a portfolio of dividend-growth ETFs would typically require significantly more capital because of their lower starting yields. Conservative (3% to 4% yield). At 3.5%, $30,000 divided by 0.035 equals roughly $857,000. This tier holds broad dividend growth ETFs, large-cap quality funds, and dividend aristocrats. The income line starts low but compounds, and the principal tends to appreciate alongside the broader market. The price of safety is the largest upfront capital requirement. Moderate (5% to 7% yield). At 6%, $30,000 divided by 0.06 equals $500,000. Real estate investment trusts, preferred shares, midstream energy partnerships, and select high-dividend equity funds populate this range. Dividend growth slows, some strategies cap upside, but the current income is meaningfully higher. Aggressive (8% to 14% yield). At 10%, $30,000 divided by 0.10 equals $300,000. Equity CEFs at discounts, business development companies, mortgage REITs, and leveraged credit funds live here. The capital requirement collapses, but principal can erode and distributions can be cut. You are buying income; growth is secondary. A closed-end fund trading at a 12% discount allows investors to purchase $1 worth of underlying assets for $0.88. That discount can enhance the income generated on the investor’s purchase price because distributions are paid on the fund’s underlying assets while shares trade at a lower market value. Discounts can also create a potential source of capital appreciation. If a fund’s discount narrows from 12% to 5% over three years, the market price can rise relative to net asset value even if the portfolio itself posts little or no growth, providing an additional return source alongside the distributions. The BlackRock Health Sciences Trust (NYSE:BME) trades near $40 and pays $0.2621 monthly, an annualized $3.1452 per share. The Eaton Vance Tax-Managed Buy-Write Opportunities Fund (NYSE:ETV) sits near $14.92 with a $0.0993 monthly distribution. Three sibling buy-write funds round out the basket: Eaton Vance Tax-Managed Buy-Write Income (NYSE:ETB) at $15.57 paying $0.1058 monthly, Eaton Vance Enhanced Equity Income (NYSE:EOI) at $19.95 paying $0.1338, and Eaton Vance Enhanced Equity Income II (NYSE:EOS) at $22.92 paying $0.1523. EOS is benchmarked to the Russell 1000 Growth with $1.19 billion in net assets and writes single-stock covered calls on its holdings. Distribution histories matter here. EOI lifted its monthly payout from $0.1095 to $0.1338 in March 2024, and EOS jumped from $0.1152 to $0.1523 over the same window. BME has paid uninterrupted monthly distributions for 18 years. A 3.5% yield growing at 8% annually can double its income stream in about nine years. By contrast, a portfolio paying a flat 10% yield may deliver more income upfront but little growth over time, particularly if the underlying principal gradually declines. For a 65-year-old retiree drawing income today, the higher-yield approach may make sense because the investment horizon is shorter. For a 55-year-old planning for several more decades of retirement, a lower-yield strategy with stronger income growth can become more attractive. In that context, a CEF portfolio is not necessarily a superior solution, but rather a tool designed for a specific objective. For perspective, the 10-year Treasury currently yields about 4.45%, while the upper end of the federal funds target range stands at 3.75%. An 8% to 10% CEF distribution therefore offers a substantial premium over prevailing risk-free rates, though that additional yield comes with meaningful investment risk. Drew Wood has edited or ghostwritten 9 books and published over 1,400 articles on a wide range of topics, including business, politics, world cultures, wildlife, and earth science. Drew holds a doctorate and 4 masters degrees, and he has nearly 30 years of college teaching experience. His travels have taken him to 25 countries, including 3 years living abroad in Ukraine. Our top personal finance-related articles today. Your wallet will thank you later. A retired couple, both 68, has owned the same closed-end fund for 12 years, collecting an 8% yield the entire… A 71-year-old retiree holding $850,000 across a basket of closed-end funds is generating roughly $61,000 a year in distributions. That… The average retired worker collected roughly $2,071 a month from Social Security in 2026, the result of a 2.8% cost-of-living… The average Social Security retirement check runs about $1,907 a month, or roughly $22,884 a year. For a retiree with… Replacing a $75,000 salary with dividend income means generating $6,250 per month without selling shares. The math is straightforward: divide… A 65-year-old single retiree with $300,000 split evenly between two JPMorgan covered-call ETFs can pull roughly $24,000 in annual distributions… A $500,000 position generating a 7% blended yield produces $35,000 in annual income, or about $2,917 per month. That is… Generating $3,500 per month in retirement income works out to roughly $42,000 annually, enough to cover the payment on a… Generating $1,800 per month from a $300,000 portfolio requires a blended yield of roughly 7.2%, enough to produce about $21,600…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: NYC bar owner used Kalshi to hedge the bar’s bets and provided that extra insurance during the Knicks’ Game 1
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/options/articles/nyc-bar-owner-used-kalshi-114500509.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T11:45:00Z
Description: After getting burned, Freedman got some insurance from the prediction market company.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: $20,000 is ‘a good place to start’ for emergency funds, financial expert says – a 3-month buffer may no longer cut it
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/articles/20-000-good-place-start-110000505.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T11:00:00Z
Description: Saving this much may seem like a daunting task, especially if you’re feeling the squeeze from rising costs and stagnating wages. Here’s how to do it.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Are tokenized funds a threat to mutual funds and ETFs? Explained
URL: https://www.livemint.com/money/personal-finance/are-tokenized-funds-a-threat-to-mutual-funds-and-etfs-explained-11780730813411.html
Time Published: 2026-06-06T08:18:56Z
Full Content:
If you’re curious about how technology has transformed the asset management industry over the years, brace yourself—there’s more! The tokenization of funds is poised to drive another revolution in the industry, much like the rise of ETFs marked a major shift not long ago. Here’s what you need to know about tokenized fund investments and whether it is threat to the ETF and mutual fund markets. Tokenization is the process of creating a digital representation of a real thing, as Mckinsey describes the process. Meanwhile, tokenisation of funds is the process of representing shares in a traditional investment vehicle—such as a mutual fund, ETF, or private equity fund—as digital tokens on a blockchain. Each token represents verifiable, legally enforceable ownership of a specific fraction or unit Similar to traditional mutual funds, tokenized funds are valued using their net asset value (NAV). However, instead of an NAV per share, investors see an NAV per token, which is determined by dividing the fund’s total NAV by the number of tokens in circulation. One key feature of tokenized funds is that ownership of the fund is tracked by blockchain and updated accordingly; hence, unlike traditional funds, these fund types do not need a central register of shareholders. In this setup, roles change slightly, but the fund ecosystem stays largely the same. The tokenization of funds has witnessed steady growth over the past few years, with large financial institutions leading the way and regulators showing strong support. For example, in 2021, Franklin Templeton launched the first U.S.-registered fund on a blockchain, the Franklin OnChain U.S. Government Money Fund. In 2024, BlackRock introduced the BlackRock USD Institutional Digital Liquidity Fund (BUIDL), which quickly reached a market value of over $500 million within months. An EY report also states that there is a chance that7% to 9% ofinvestors will allocate their entire portfolio to tokenized assets by 2027. To understand this, let's first look the similarities, differences, and unique advantages each asset class offers. While tokenized funds offer several advantages over traditional mutual funds and ETFs, they are not necessarily a threat. In fact, a BCG survey suggests that they can complement and enhance traditional investment funds. For example, despite overseeing roughly $58 trillion in assets and generating average annual returns of 7.1% over the last decade, mutual funds still rely on a settlement process that typically takes two to three days (T+2/T+3). This delay can reduce capital efficiency and create hurdles for developing new investment solutions. But “by solving these problems, fund tokenization could produce about 17 additional basis points of annual return for mutual fund investors, representing about US$100 billion.” Sanchari Ghosh is an Assistant Editor at Mint with over 12 years of experience in journalism, specialising in personal finance, DLT & DeFi, geopolitics and foreign policy, with a particular emphasis on how these areas intersect. <br> She writes extensively about how money works in everyday life—helping readers navigate personal finance decisions. <br> As AI reshapes investing behaviour, capital is increasingly flowing into decentralized ecosystems, redefining how assets are managed, traded, and valued. She focuses on explaining how money flows within frameworks like Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), DeFi protocols, and crypto markets—while also exploring what the future of money could look like in a trustless, programmable financial world. <br> She also focuses on immigration-related issues, simplifying complex topics around visas, passports, overseas financial planning, and the many practical challenges Indians face while moving or living abroad. <br> Alongside personal finance, Sanchari has a strong understanding of international politics, contemporary and historical conflicts, and global state decisions. She closely tracks how geopolitical developments influence economies, markets, and individual financial choices, bringing together finance and global affairs in her reporting. <br> She began her career as a desk editor, which gave her a strong foundation in news writing. Over time, her interest naturally shifted toward personal finance. Before joining Mint in 2020, she worked DNA, The Times of India, Outlook Money, BloombergQuint, and ETMoney. At Mint, she got an opportunity to expand her coverage to include immigration and geopolitical developments while continuing to closely follow personal finance trends and market movements.As a journalist, she is committed to accuracy, intellectual rigour, and fairness. <br> She is an English Major and her work took her across cities including Delhi, Mumbai, and Pune. Living independently from an early age gave her firsthand experience in managing life and money on her own. This practical exposure sparked her strong interest in personal finance. <br> Outside the newsroom, Sanchari is a sports enthusiast who regularly plays lawn tennis and squash. In her younger years, she was also a national-level badminton player. Catch all the Instant Personal Loan, Business Loan, Business News, Money news, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment. Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: BlackRock buys $47M worth of Bitcoin amid market fear
URL: https://cryptobriefing.com/blackrock-buys-bitcoin-market-fear/
Time Published: 2026-06-06T03:22:28Z
Full Content:
Searching... The world's largest asset manager snapped up Bitcoin through its IBIT ETF after enduring nearly two weeks of consecutive outflows. Share While retail investors were heading for the exits, BlackRock was walking in the front door. The asset management giant’s iShares Bitcoin Trust, better known as IBIT, recorded approximately $47 million in net inflows on June 4-5, breaking a 13-day streak of outflows. In practical terms, that means investors poured fresh capital into the ETF, which then purchased Bitcoin to back newly created shares. When money flows into IBIT, BlackRock doesn’t just sit on the cash. The fund is required to purchase actual Bitcoin to back each new share issued. So a $47 million inflow translates directly into $47 million worth of Bitcoin being acquired on behalf of shareholders. The reverse is also true. During that painful 13-day outflow streak, Bitcoin was being sold to meet redemptions. ETF flow data, tracked by services like Farside Investors, has become one of the most closely watched metrics in crypto. These numbers reveal what institutional and retail investors are actually doing with their money. The inflow arrived during a period of broader market volatility and what multiple observers described as retail panic-selling. BlackRock has been positioning itself as the primary institutional gateway to Bitcoin since IBIT launched in January 2024. The ETF quickly became the dominant product in the US spot Bitcoin ETF category, surpassing competitors in assets under management. The break in IBIT’s outflow streak raises a question that every Bitcoin investor should be asking: is institutional accumulation beginning to diverge from retail sentiment? A single day of $47 million in inflows does not constitute a trend. The 13 days of outflows that preceded it were a trend. Investors should be watching subsequent flow data closely. If IBIT strings together multiple days of inflows, that’s a materially different signal than a one-off blip. IBIT isn’t the only spot Bitcoin ETF, but it is the biggest. When the market leader sees renewed demand, it often pulls smaller products along with it. The world's largest asset manager snapped up Bitcoin through its IBIT ETF after enduring nearly two weeks of consecutive outflows. Share While retail investors were heading for the exits, BlackRock was walking in the front door. The asset management giant’s iShares Bitcoin Trust, better known as IBIT, recorded approximately $47 million in net inflows on June 4-5, breaking a 13-day streak of outflows. In practical terms, that means investors poured fresh capital into the ETF, which then purchased Bitcoin to back newly created shares. When money flows into IBIT, BlackRock doesn’t just sit on the cash. The fund is required to purchase actual Bitcoin to back each new share issued. So a $47 million inflow translates directly into $47 million worth of Bitcoin being acquired on behalf of shareholders. The reverse is also true. During that painful 13-day outflow streak, Bitcoin was being sold to meet redemptions. ETF flow data, tracked by services like Farside Investors, has become one of the most closely watched metrics in crypto. These numbers reveal what institutional and retail investors are actually doing with their money. The inflow arrived during a period of broader market volatility and what multiple observers described as retail panic-selling. BlackRock has been positioning itself as the primary institutional gateway to Bitcoin since IBIT launched in January 2024. The ETF quickly became the dominant product in the US spot Bitcoin ETF category, surpassing competitors in assets under management. The break in IBIT’s outflow streak raises a question that every Bitcoin investor should be asking: is institutional accumulation beginning to diverge from retail sentiment? A single day of $47 million in inflows does not constitute a trend. The 13 days of outflows that preceded it were a trend. Investors should be watching subsequent flow data closely. If IBIT strings together multiple days of inflows, that’s a materially different signal than a one-off blip. IBIT isn’t the only spot Bitcoin ETF, but it is the biggest. When the market leader sees renewed demand, it often pulls smaller products along with it. All content is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. CryptoBriefing does not provide recommendations to buy, sell, or hold any asset or contract. See our Disclaimer & Risk Disclosure. © Decentral Media and Crypto Briefing® 2026. Sign in to your account Create your account Already have an account? Sign In Forgot your password? Sign In Daily news, analysis & market insights delivered free.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Alex Jones Interview with Stephen Kuhn, co-founder of Germany’s AfD party
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4382533/posts
Time Published: 2026-06-06T02:51:11Z
Full Content:
Skip to comments. Posted on 06/05/2026 7:51:11 PM PDT by E. Pluribus Unum Video Transcript Summary Stephen Kuhn, a Bronze Star recipient, combat veteran (Iraq), co-founder of Germany's AfD party, intelligence/politics insider who lived in 10 countries, with a Ukrainian partner, and author of five books on citizens reclaiming government power. The interview is optimistic yet urgent, framing a global struggle between sovereignists/nationalists and globalists/technocrats. Kuhn emphasizes facts, triangulation of information, long-term strategic thinking, and practical local action over emotional narratives. Kuhn expresses deep faith in America as the greatest nation due to its moral and spiritual origins (belief in higher power, Enlightenment/Magna Carta roots, Judeo-Christian values). Americans are the top per-capita donors globally, reflecting core generosity. While traveling (currently in Turkey), people worldwide tell him "America has to win" against globalists—not just militarily but systemically. He contrasts short-term public thinking (election cycles, daily life) with globalists’ 10-30 year planning (e.g., via USAID). America has overcome worse (WWI/WWII); hope "dies last."Ukraine Analysis: A Pre-Planned OperationKuhn states Ukraine "already doesn't exist" as a sovereign nation:Demographics: Up to 2 million dead (plus wounded/natural deaths); ~6 million fled (25% of population), many not returning. Hungary, Turkey, Germany, UK, Ireland absorbed large numbers.Ownership: Land (some of the world's most fertile + resources), infrastructure, rebuilding contracts, weapons, and government pre-owned by outsiders (BlackRock, Larry Fink as economic manager, globalists/Rothschild-linked entities). Pre-planned since ~2019 per EU documents.Money Flows: Arms, destruction, and rebuilding as profit machines. Billions laundered via shadow companies; super-yacht sales example tied to Ukrainian wealth extraction.Narrative Trap: "Fight to the last Ukrainian" + cognitive dissonance. People defend the narrative emotionally despite facts; Kuhn’s wife’s family (brought to safety) faces permanent loss. Putin not idealized, but focus remains on Ukraine's reality.Israel, NDAA, and "Coup" ConcernsBoth criticize a section of the 2027 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for deep U.S.-Israel military/intelligence integration (DARPA, weapons, lifetime telemetry). Viewed as treasonous: Israel already spies extensively (Jonathan Pollard history, nuclear blackmail claims in 1973).Netanyahu letters thanking Congress; potential for "10,000 Pollards" inside U.S. systems.Broader view: Israel seizing vacuum (post-China focus), mechanism for BlackRock/British Empire remnants rather than sole actor. Not tunnel vision—part of imperial financial structure. MTG letter called it out.Iran, Russia, and Geopolitical OutlookIran: Trap for Trump/economy. IRGC vs. leadership split; decentralized radicals hard to negotiate with (strength in ideology). Strait of Hormuz risks. Crypto payments (USDT/Tether) suggest hidden alignments. Desperation signals (blatant lies, accelerated moves).Russia-Ukraine: Likely continues to 2029-2030 per plan (economic destruction of Europe, privatization, consolidation). Putin shows restraint; recent civilian targeting escalations. NATO risks if escalated.Turkey: Strong patriotic nation, 2nd-largest NATO army. Israeli ministers (e.g., Ben-Gvir) naming it/Egypt as next foes seen as dangerous. Greater Israel Project maps allegedly include Turkish territory + Constantinople aspirations.Globalist Playbook: Ride cycles (economic implosion → Marshall Plan for Europe/Ukraine → serfdom). Spider/enzyme analogy for slow extraction. BlackRock central (Ukraine as entry to Europe). Operatives (Zelensky, Macron, etc.) serve shareholder value.Solutions: Localism and "TAB" (Take America Back)Kuhn’s core actionable message:Math Problem: 3,144 U.S. counties. ~100k vacant precinct seats, ~200k local government seats. 70% of local elections unopposed/single-candidate. 3 mayors in North Dakota empty.Scale: 10 people per county = 31,444 activists (~1 in 8,000 adults, 0.01% of Americans) could reclaim the republic from the ground up. Corruption starts local (tax breaks, kickbacks).How: jointab.us → "Find my seat" by zip code. Apply for precincts, school boards, city councils, mayor. Normal people succeeding (examples: Colorado, Maricopa County). Keep integrity; represent constituents.Why Local: All politics local. Bureaucrats/city managers thrive on vacant seats. Left uses "think global, act local." Revolutionaries fought where they lived. Conservatives too passive/arrogant/shy; must invest time/energy. Weaponized debt and COVID-style reprisals enforce compliance.Psychological and Strategic InsightsNarrative Loops: Emotional triggers, cognitive dissonance keep people from facts. Separate reaction: Ask who benefits? Exit via integrity/morality (Kuhn’s books, co-author Chase Hughes on "Incorruptible").Cycles: Globalists ride them; opponents can too with morality. Create SOP/process for sustained pushback, not 4-year election hope.Desperation: Accelerated, blatant moves (NDAA, lies) signal panic. Awakening counters short-term wins (economy wrecking, midterms risks).Optimism: Military/intel veterans increasingly "radicalized"/pissed. People worldwide distinguish U.S. people from government. Grassroots energy can break the cycle.Additional NotesJones promotes supplements (methylene blue, iodine, etc.), sweepstakes, and local action. Interrupts excitedly due to alignment.Kuhn requests more books/TAB deep-dives. Offers guest suggestions.Tone mixes dire warnings (coup-level integration, economic plans) with empowerment ("we are more than them," lead where you live, America’s comeback history).The interview synthesizes geopolitics, conspiracy-adjacent analysis (pre-planned wars, ownership, integration as coup), and a concrete, numbers-driven local organizing strategy as the antidote. It runs ~1-2 hours in full, blending monologue, dialogue, and calls to action. TOPICS: Foreign Affairs KEYWORDS: 0bloggers; afd; alexjone; alexjones; antisemitism; bloggers; eussr; fourthreich; frantisemiticcult; naziinterview; nazis; neonazis; russia; stephenkuhn; steveneugenekuhn; stevenkuhn; tds; trumphaters 1 posted on 06/05/2026 7:51:11 PM PDT by E. Pluribus Unum [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: E. Pluribus Unum AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S 2 posted on 06/05/2026 7:54:44 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rktman “AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S” ____________________________________________________________ You mean Putin’s Neo-Nazis? 3 posted on 06/05/2026 8:12:10 PM PDT by Bob Wills is still the king [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: Bob Wills is still the king Today’s moniker? 😊👍 4 posted on 06/05/2026 8:16:50 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: pepsionice Germany pingy 5 posted on 06/05/2026 8:20:49 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: PROCON Some points...I might agree....some less so. From Ukrainians in Germany...near 1-million...I’d say 75-percent won’t return to Ukraine. There’s jobs and ‘order’...something they don’t see in Ukraine. Neither Ukraine or Russia are honest on battlefield deaths. Because bank chaos....Russia will never return to 2019-stability/profitability. I noted this past week, some Russian bank wants to import thousand of Indians for work-projects...they (the bank) would manage this. They just want Putin to allow this, and somehow...pay for it (never will happen). When you go back to 2013/2014 with Ukraine/EU chaos...there were probably a dozen different agendas between Ukraine, EU, UK, US (Obama-crew, Biden-crew), China, and Russia. Everyone had their own get-rich scheme in play. On Iran...Israel and US probably took out 200 of the top 300 dimwits...creating massive leadership chaos, and various new ‘war-lords’ created out of thin air, with no real cash flow. They aren’t smart enough to understand the banking mess or how commerce works in a dog-eat-dog environment. Trump is mostly stuck now...no person or group with the wit or power to sign for peace. Gaze over at Saudi A/Dubai/Qatar...the movers/shakers have up-and-left...the short ‘war’ might continue for a year. As for AfD...the economics for Germany have been on a downward trend for 20 years. The magic required? Cheap Russian natural gas...less regulation...nuke power replacing wind/solar...substantial tax reform. AfD talks over some of this, but getting enough votes to run a coalition gov’t probably won’t happen. 6 posted on 06/06/2026 12:53:51 AM PDT by pepsionice [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Video Transcript Summary Stephen Kuhn, a Bronze Star recipient, combat veteran (Iraq), co-founder of Germany's AfD party, intelligence/politics insider who lived in 10 countries, with a Ukrainian partner, and author of five books on citizens reclaiming government power. The interview is optimistic yet urgent, framing a global struggle between sovereignists/nationalists and globalists/technocrats. Kuhn emphasizes facts, triangulation of information, long-term strategic thinking, and practical local action over emotional narratives. Kuhn expresses deep faith in America as the greatest nation due to its moral and spiritual origins (belief in higher power, Enlightenment/Magna Carta roots, Judeo-Christian values). Americans are the top per-capita donors globally, reflecting core generosity. While traveling (currently in Turkey), people worldwide tell him "America has to win" against globalists—not just militarily but systemically. He contrasts short-term public thinking (election cycles, daily life) with globalists’ 10-30 year planning (e.g., via USAID). America has overcome worse (WWI/WWII); hope "dies last."Ukraine Analysis: A Pre-Planned OperationKuhn states Ukraine "already doesn't exist" as a sovereign nation:Demographics: Up to 2 million dead (plus wounded/natural deaths); ~6 million fled (25% of population), many not returning. Hungary, Turkey, Germany, UK, Ireland absorbed large numbers.Ownership: Land (some of the world's most fertile + resources), infrastructure, rebuilding contracts, weapons, and government pre-owned by outsiders (BlackRock, Larry Fink as economic manager, globalists/Rothschild-linked entities). Pre-planned since ~2019 per EU documents.Money Flows: Arms, destruction, and rebuilding as profit machines. Billions laundered via shadow companies; super-yacht sales example tied to Ukrainian wealth extraction.Narrative Trap: "Fight to the last Ukrainian" + cognitive dissonance. People defend the narrative emotionally despite facts; Kuhn’s wife’s family (brought to safety) faces permanent loss. Putin not idealized, but focus remains on Ukraine's reality.Israel, NDAA, and "Coup" ConcernsBoth criticize a section of the 2027 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for deep U.S.-Israel military/intelligence integration (DARPA, weapons, lifetime telemetry). Viewed as treasonous: Israel already spies extensively (Jonathan Pollard history, nuclear blackmail claims in 1973).Netanyahu letters thanking Congress; potential for "10,000 Pollards" inside U.S. systems.Broader view: Israel seizing vacuum (post-China focus), mechanism for BlackRock/British Empire remnants rather than sole actor. Not tunnel vision—part of imperial financial structure. MTG letter called it out.Iran, Russia, and Geopolitical OutlookIran: Trap for Trump/economy. IRGC vs. leadership split; decentralized radicals hard to negotiate with (strength in ideology). Strait of Hormuz risks. Crypto payments (USDT/Tether) suggest hidden alignments. Desperation signals (blatant lies, accelerated moves).Russia-Ukraine: Likely continues to 2029-2030 per plan (economic destruction of Europe, privatization, consolidation). Putin shows restraint; recent civilian targeting escalations. NATO risks if escalated.Turkey: Strong patriotic nation, 2nd-largest NATO army. Israeli ministers (e.g., Ben-Gvir) naming it/Egypt as next foes seen as dangerous. Greater Israel Project maps allegedly include Turkish territory + Constantinople aspirations.Globalist Playbook: Ride cycles (economic implosion → Marshall Plan for Europe/Ukraine → serfdom). Spider/enzyme analogy for slow extraction. BlackRock central (Ukraine as entry to Europe). Operatives (Zelensky, Macron, etc.) serve shareholder value.Solutions: Localism and "TAB" (Take America Back)Kuhn’s core actionable message:Math Problem: 3,144 U.S. counties. ~100k vacant precinct seats, ~200k local government seats. 70% of local elections unopposed/single-candidate. 3 mayors in North Dakota empty.Scale: 10 people per county = 31,444 activists (~1 in 8,000 adults, 0.01% of Americans) could reclaim the republic from the ground up. Corruption starts local (tax breaks, kickbacks).How: jointab.us → "Find my seat" by zip code. Apply for precincts, school boards, city councils, mayor. Normal people succeeding (examples: Colorado, Maricopa County). Keep integrity; represent constituents.Why Local: All politics local. Bureaucrats/city managers thrive on vacant seats. Left uses "think global, act local." Revolutionaries fought where they lived. Conservatives too passive/arrogant/shy; must invest time/energy. Weaponized debt and COVID-style reprisals enforce compliance.Psychological and Strategic InsightsNarrative Loops: Emotional triggers, cognitive dissonance keep people from facts. Separate reaction: Ask who benefits? Exit via integrity/morality (Kuhn’s books, co-author Chase Hughes on "Incorruptible").Cycles: Globalists ride them; opponents can too with morality. Create SOP/process for sustained pushback, not 4-year election hope.Desperation: Accelerated, blatant moves (NDAA, lies) signal panic. Awakening counters short-term wins (economy wrecking, midterms risks).Optimism: Military/intel veterans increasingly "radicalized"/pissed. People worldwide distinguish U.S. people from government. Grassroots energy can break the cycle.Additional NotesJones promotes supplements (methylene blue, iodine, etc.), sweepstakes, and local action. Interrupts excitedly due to alignment.Kuhn requests more books/TAB deep-dives. Offers guest suggestions.Tone mixes dire warnings (coup-level integration, economic plans) with empowerment ("we are more than them," lead where you live, America’s comeback history).The interview synthesizes geopolitics, conspiracy-adjacent analysis (pre-planned wars, ownership, integration as coup), and a concrete, numbers-driven local organizing strategy as the antidote. It runs ~1-2 hours in full, blending monologue, dialogue, and calls to action. TOPICS: Foreign Affairs KEYWORDS: 0bloggers; afd; alexjone; alexjones; antisemitism; bloggers; eussr; fourthreich; frantisemiticcult; naziinterview; nazis; neonazis; russia; stephenkuhn; steveneugenekuhn; stevenkuhn; tds; trumphaters 1 posted on 06/05/2026 7:51:11 PM PDT by E. Pluribus Unum [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: E. Pluribus Unum AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S 2 posted on 06/05/2026 7:54:44 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rktman “AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S” ____________________________________________________________ You mean Putin’s Neo-Nazis? 3 posted on 06/05/2026 8:12:10 PM PDT by Bob Wills is still the king [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: Bob Wills is still the king Today’s moniker? 😊👍 4 posted on 06/05/2026 8:16:50 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: pepsionice Germany pingy 5 posted on 06/05/2026 8:20:49 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: PROCON Some points...I might agree....some less so. From Ukrainians in Germany...near 1-million...I’d say 75-percent won’t return to Ukraine. There’s jobs and ‘order’...something they don’t see in Ukraine. Neither Ukraine or Russia are honest on battlefield deaths. Because bank chaos....Russia will never return to 2019-stability/profitability. I noted this past week, some Russian bank wants to import thousand of Indians for work-projects...they (the bank) would manage this. They just want Putin to allow this, and somehow...pay for it (never will happen). When you go back to 2013/2014 with Ukraine/EU chaos...there were probably a dozen different agendas between Ukraine, EU, UK, US (Obama-crew, Biden-crew), China, and Russia. Everyone had their own get-rich scheme in play. On Iran...Israel and US probably took out 200 of the top 300 dimwits...creating massive leadership chaos, and various new ‘war-lords’ created out of thin air, with no real cash flow. They aren’t smart enough to understand the banking mess or how commerce works in a dog-eat-dog environment. Trump is mostly stuck now...no person or group with the wit or power to sign for peace. Gaze over at Saudi A/Dubai/Qatar...the movers/shakers have up-and-left...the short ‘war’ might continue for a year. As for AfD...the economics for Germany have been on a downward trend for 20 years. The magic required? Cheap Russian natural gas...less regulation...nuke power replacing wind/solar...substantial tax reform. AfD talks over some of this, but getting enough votes to run a coalition gov’t probably won’t happen. 6 posted on 06/06/2026 12:53:51 AM PDT by pepsionice [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Stephen Kuhn, a Bronze Star recipient, combat veteran (Iraq), co-founder of Germany's AfD party, intelligence/politics insider who lived in 10 countries, with a Ukrainian partner, and author of five books on citizens reclaiming government power. The interview is optimistic yet urgent, framing a global struggle between sovereignists/nationalists and globalists/technocrats. Kuhn emphasizes facts, triangulation of information, long-term strategic thinking, and practical local action over emotional narratives. Kuhn expresses deep faith in America as the greatest nation due to its moral and spiritual origins (belief in higher power, Enlightenment/Magna Carta roots, Judeo-Christian values). Americans are the top per-capita donors globally, reflecting core generosity. While traveling (currently in Turkey), people worldwide tell him "America has to win" against globalists—not just militarily but systemically. He contrasts short-term public thinking (election cycles, daily life) with globalists’ 10-30 year planning (e.g., via USAID). America has overcome worse (WWI/WWII); hope "dies last."Ukraine Analysis: A Pre-Planned OperationKuhn states Ukraine "already doesn't exist" as a sovereign nation:Demographics: Up to 2 million dead (plus wounded/natural deaths); ~6 million fled (25% of population), many not returning. Hungary, Turkey, Germany, UK, Ireland absorbed large numbers.Ownership: Land (some of the world's most fertile + resources), infrastructure, rebuilding contracts, weapons, and government pre-owned by outsiders (BlackRock, Larry Fink as economic manager, globalists/Rothschild-linked entities). Pre-planned since ~2019 per EU documents.Money Flows: Arms, destruction, and rebuilding as profit machines. Billions laundered via shadow companies; super-yacht sales example tied to Ukrainian wealth extraction.Narrative Trap: "Fight to the last Ukrainian" + cognitive dissonance. People defend the narrative emotionally despite facts; Kuhn’s wife’s family (brought to safety) faces permanent loss. Putin not idealized, but focus remains on Ukraine's reality.Israel, NDAA, and "Coup" ConcernsBoth criticize a section of the 2027 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for deep U.S.-Israel military/intelligence integration (DARPA, weapons, lifetime telemetry). Viewed as treasonous: Israel already spies extensively (Jonathan Pollard history, nuclear blackmail claims in 1973).Netanyahu letters thanking Congress; potential for "10,000 Pollards" inside U.S. systems.Broader view: Israel seizing vacuum (post-China focus), mechanism for BlackRock/British Empire remnants rather than sole actor. Not tunnel vision—part of imperial financial structure. MTG letter called it out.Iran, Russia, and Geopolitical OutlookIran: Trap for Trump/economy. IRGC vs. leadership split; decentralized radicals hard to negotiate with (strength in ideology). Strait of Hormuz risks. Crypto payments (USDT/Tether) suggest hidden alignments. Desperation signals (blatant lies, accelerated moves).Russia-Ukraine: Likely continues to 2029-2030 per plan (economic destruction of Europe, privatization, consolidation). Putin shows restraint; recent civilian targeting escalations. NATO risks if escalated.Turkey: Strong patriotic nation, 2nd-largest NATO army. Israeli ministers (e.g., Ben-Gvir) naming it/Egypt as next foes seen as dangerous. Greater Israel Project maps allegedly include Turkish territory + Constantinople aspirations.Globalist Playbook: Ride cycles (economic implosion → Marshall Plan for Europe/Ukraine → serfdom). Spider/enzyme analogy for slow extraction. BlackRock central (Ukraine as entry to Europe). Operatives (Zelensky, Macron, etc.) serve shareholder value.Solutions: Localism and "TAB" (Take America Back)Kuhn’s core actionable message:Math Problem: 3,144 U.S. counties. ~100k vacant precinct seats, ~200k local government seats. 70% of local elections unopposed/single-candidate. 3 mayors in North Dakota empty.Scale: 10 people per county = 31,444 activists (~1 in 8,000 adults, 0.01% of Americans) could reclaim the republic from the ground up. Corruption starts local (tax breaks, kickbacks).How: jointab.us → "Find my seat" by zip code. Apply for precincts, school boards, city councils, mayor. Normal people succeeding (examples: Colorado, Maricopa County). Keep integrity; represent constituents.Why Local: All politics local. Bureaucrats/city managers thrive on vacant seats. Left uses "think global, act local." Revolutionaries fought where they lived. Conservatives too passive/arrogant/shy; must invest time/energy. Weaponized debt and COVID-style reprisals enforce compliance.Psychological and Strategic InsightsNarrative Loops: Emotional triggers, cognitive dissonance keep people from facts. Separate reaction: Ask who benefits? Exit via integrity/morality (Kuhn’s books, co-author Chase Hughes on "Incorruptible").Cycles: Globalists ride them; opponents can too with morality. Create SOP/process for sustained pushback, not 4-year election hope.Desperation: Accelerated, blatant moves (NDAA, lies) signal panic. Awakening counters short-term wins (economy wrecking, midterms risks).Optimism: Military/intel veterans increasingly "radicalized"/pissed. People worldwide distinguish U.S. people from government. Grassroots energy can break the cycle.Additional NotesJones promotes supplements (methylene blue, iodine, etc.), sweepstakes, and local action. Interrupts excitedly due to alignment.Kuhn requests more books/TAB deep-dives. Offers guest suggestions.Tone mixes dire warnings (coup-level integration, economic plans) with empowerment ("we are more than them," lead where you live, America’s comeback history).The interview synthesizes geopolitics, conspiracy-adjacent analysis (pre-planned wars, ownership, integration as coup), and a concrete, numbers-driven local organizing strategy as the antidote. It runs ~1-2 hours in full, blending monologue, dialogue, and calls to action. TOPICS: Foreign Affairs KEYWORDS: 0bloggers; afd; alexjone; alexjones; antisemitism; bloggers; eussr; fourthreich; frantisemiticcult; naziinterview; nazis; neonazis; russia; stephenkuhn; steveneugenekuhn; stevenkuhn; tds; trumphaters 1 posted on 06/05/2026 7:51:11 PM PDT by E. Pluribus Unum [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: E. Pluribus Unum AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S 2 posted on 06/05/2026 7:54:44 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: rktman “AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S” ____________________________________________________________ You mean Putin’s Neo-Nazis? 3 posted on 06/05/2026 8:12:10 PM PDT by Bob Wills is still the king [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: Bob Wills is still the king Today’s moniker? 😊👍 4 posted on 06/05/2026 8:16:50 PM PDT by rktman (Destroy America from within? On hold! Enlisted USN 1967 proudly. 🚫💉! 🇮🇱🙏! Winning currently!) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: pepsionice Germany pingy 5 posted on 06/05/2026 8:20:49 PM PDT by PROCON (Sic Semper Tyrannis) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 2 | View Replies] To: PROCON Some points...I might agree....some less so. From Ukrainians in Germany...near 1-million...I’d say 75-percent won’t return to Ukraine. There’s jobs and ‘order’...something they don’t see in Ukraine. Neither Ukraine or Russia are honest on battlefield deaths. Because bank chaos....Russia will never return to 2019-stability/profitability. I noted this past week, some Russian bank wants to import thousand of Indians for work-projects...they (the bank) would manage this. They just want Putin to allow this, and somehow...pay for it (never will happen). When you go back to 2013/2014 with Ukraine/EU chaos...there were probably a dozen different agendas between Ukraine, EU, UK, US (Obama-crew, Biden-crew), China, and Russia. Everyone had their own get-rich scheme in play. On Iran...Israel and US probably took out 200 of the top 300 dimwits...creating massive leadership chaos, and various new ‘war-lords’ created out of thin air, with no real cash flow. They aren’t smart enough to understand the banking mess or how commerce works in a dog-eat-dog environment. Trump is mostly stuck now...no person or group with the wit or power to sign for peace. Gaze over at Saudi A/Dubai/Qatar...the movers/shakers have up-and-left...the short ‘war’ might continue for a year. As for AfD...the economics for Germany have been on a downward trend for 20 years. The magic required? Cheap Russian natural gas...less regulation...nuke power replacing wind/solar...substantial tax reform. AfD talks over some of this, but getting enough votes to run a coalition gov’t probably won’t happen. 6 posted on 06/06/2026 12:53:51 AM PDT by pepsionice [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Kuhn expresses deep faith in America as the greatest nation due to its moral and spiritual origins (belief in higher power, Enlightenment/Magna Carta roots, Judeo-Christian values). Americans are the top per-capita donors globally, reflecting core generosity. While traveling (currently in Turkey), people worldwide tell him "America has to win" against globalists—not just militarily but systemically. He contrasts short-term public thinking (election cycles, daily life) with globalists’ 10-30 year planning (e.g., via USAID). America has overcome worse (WWI/WWII); hope "dies last."Ukraine Analysis: A Pre-Planned OperationKuhn states Ukraine "already doesn't exist" as a sovereign nation:Demographics: Up to 2 million dead (plus wounded/natural deaths); ~6 million fled (25% of population), many not returning. Hungary, Turkey, Germany, UK, Ireland absorbed large numbers.Ownership: Land (some of the world's most fertile + resources), infrastructure, rebuilding contracts, weapons, and government pre-owned by outsiders (BlackRock, Larry Fink as economic manager, globalists/Rothschild-linked entities). Pre-planned since ~2019 per EU documents.Money Flows: Arms, destruction, and rebuilding as profit machines. Billions laundered via shadow companies; super-yacht sales example tied to Ukrainian wealth extraction.Narrative Trap: "Fight to the last Ukrainian" + cognitive dissonance. People defend the narrative emotionally despite facts; Kuhn’s wife’s family (brought to safety) faces permanent loss. Putin not idealized, but focus remains on Ukraine's reality.Israel, NDAA, and "Coup" ConcernsBoth criticize a section of the 2027 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for deep U.S.-Israel military/intelligence integration (DARPA, weapons, lifetime telemetry). Viewed as treasonous: Israel already spies extensively (Jonathan Pollard history, nuclear blackmail claims in 1973).Netanyahu letters thanking Congress; potential for "10,000 Pollards" inside U.S. systems.Broader view: Israel seizing vacuum (post-China focus), mechanism for BlackRock/British Empire remnants rather than sole actor. Not tunnel vision—part of imperial financial structure. MTG letter called it out.Iran, Russia, and Geopolitical OutlookIran: Trap for Trump/economy. IRGC vs. leadership split; decentralized radicals hard to negotiate with (strength in ideology). Strait of Hormuz risks. Crypto payments (USDT/Tether) suggest hidden alignments. Desperation signals (blatant lies, accelerated moves).Russia-Ukraine: Likely continues to 2029-2030 per plan (economic destruction of Europe, privatization, consolidation). Putin shows restraint; recent civilian targeting escalations. NATO risks if escalated.Turkey: Strong patriotic nation, 2nd-largest NATO army. Israeli ministers (e.g., Ben-Gvir) naming it/Egypt as next foes seen as dangerous. Greater Israel Project maps allegedly include Turkish territory + Constantinople aspirations.Globalist Playbook: Ride cycles (economic implosion → Marshall Plan for Europe/Ukraine → serfdom). Spider/enzyme analogy for slow extraction. BlackRock central (Ukraine as entry to Europe). Operatives (Zelensky, Macron, etc.) serve shareholder value.Solutions: Localism and "TAB" (Take America Back)Kuhn’s core actionable message:Math Problem: 3,144 U.S. counties. ~100k vacant precinct seats, ~200k local government seats. 70% of local elections unopposed/single-candidate. 3 mayors in North Dakota empty.Scale: 10 people per county = 31,444 activists (~1 in 8,000 adults, 0.01% of Americans) could reclaim the republic from the ground up. Corruption starts local (tax breaks, kickbacks).How: jointab.us → "Find my seat" by zip code. Apply for precincts, school boards, city councils, mayor. Normal people succeeding (examples: Colorado, Maricopa County). Keep integrity; represent constituents.Why Local: All politics local. Bureaucrats/city managers thrive on vacant seats. Left uses "think global, act local." Revolutionaries fought where they lived. Conservatives too passive/arrogant/shy; must invest time/energy. Weaponized debt and COVID-style reprisals enforce compliance.Psychological and Strategic InsightsNarrative Loops: Emotional triggers, cognitive dissonance keep people from facts. Separate reaction: Ask who benefits? Exit via integrity/morality (Kuhn’s books, co-author Chase Hughes on "Incorruptible").Cycles: Globalists ride them; opponents can too with morality. Create SOP/process for sustained pushback, not 4-year election hope.Desperation: Accelerated, blatant moves (NDAA, lies) signal panic. Awakening counters short-term wins (economy wrecking, midterms risks).Optimism: Military/intel veterans increasingly "radicalized"/pissed. People worldwide distinguish U.S. people from government. Grassroots energy can break the cycle.Additional NotesJones promotes supplements (methylene blue, iodine, etc.), sweepstakes, and local action. Interrupts excitedly due to alignment.Kuhn requests more books/TAB deep-dives. Offers guest suggestions.Tone mixes dire warnings (coup-level integration, economic plans) with empowerment ("we are more than them," lead where you live, America’s comeback history).The interview synthesizes geopolitics, conspiracy-adjacent analysis (pre-planned wars, ownership, integration as coup), and a concrete, numbers-driven local organizing strategy as the antidote. It runs ~1-2 hours in full, blending monologue, dialogue, and calls to action. AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S “AfD. Oh, the “far right extremist” bunch. /S” ____________________________________________________________ You mean Putin’s Neo-Nazis? Today’s moniker? 😊👍 Germany pingy Some points...I might agree....some less so. From Ukrainians in Germany...near 1-million...I’d say 75-percent won’t return to Ukraine. There’s jobs and ‘order’...something they don’t see in Ukraine. Neither Ukraine or Russia are honest on battlefield deaths. Because bank chaos....Russia will never return to 2019-stability/profitability. I noted this past week, some Russian bank wants to import thousand of Indians for work-projects...they (the bank) would manage this. They just want Putin to allow this, and somehow...pay for it (never will happen). When you go back to 2013/2014 with Ukraine/EU chaos...there were probably a dozen different agendas between Ukraine, EU, UK, US (Obama-crew, Biden-crew), China, and Russia. Everyone had their own get-rich scheme in play. On Iran...Israel and US probably took out 200 of the top 300 dimwits...creating massive leadership chaos, and various new ‘war-lords’ created out of thin air, with no real cash flow. They aren’t smart enough to understand the banking mess or how commerce works in a dog-eat-dog environment. Trump is mostly stuck now...no person or group with the wit or power to sign for peace. Gaze over at Saudi A/Dubai/Qatar...the movers/shakers have up-and-left...the short ‘war’ might continue for a year. As for AfD...the economics for Germany have been on a downward trend for 20 years. The magic required? Cheap Russian natural gas...less regulation...nuke power replacing wind/solar...substantial tax reform. AfD talks over some of this, but getting enough votes to run a coalition gov’t probably won’t happen. Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search News/Activism Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: US Bonds Slide as Strong Jobs Data Fuels Bets on 2026 Fed Hike
URL: https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/us-bonds-slide-as-strong-jobs-data-fuels-bets-on-2026-fed-hike
Time Published: 2026-06-05T20:07:51Z
Description: Bond traders fully priced in a Federal Reserve interest-rate hike by the end of this year after US job growth topped all forecasts in May, spurring yields higher in the $31 trillion Treasuries market.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Are Institutions Crashing The Bitcoin Price On Purpose? Here’s What People Are Saying
URL: http://www.newsbtc.com/news/bitcoin/institutions-crashing-bitcoin/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T18:00:16Z
Full Content:
Strict editorial policy that focuses on accuracy, relevance, and impartiality Morbi pretium leo et nisl aliquam mollis. Quisque arcu lorem, ultricies quis pellentesque nec, ullamcorper eu odio. Crypto pundit Ash Crypto has drawn attention to speculations about how institutions could be crashing the Bitcoin price on purpose. This comes as the Bitcoin ETFs continue to record massive outflows, which have caused this latest decline for the leading crypto. In an X post, Ash Crypto claimed there were rumors that institutions are purposely crashing the Bitcoin price so they can buy at lower prices before the Clarity Act is signed into law. The pundit noted that a similar pattern had played out in August 2022, when BlackRock filed for a private Bitcoin trust, and BTC later dropped about 36% before forming a bottom. Following that, BlackRock then filed for a spot Bitcoin ETF, and the Bitcoin price later surged by 95%. Ash Crypto noted that BTC hit a new high in January 2024, when spot ETFs were approved. He added that insider institutions are repeating the same strategy with the Clarity Act narrative. The Bitcoin ETFs have largely contributed to the decline in the Bitcoin price, with these funds recording outflows in 13 out of the last 14 trading days. During this period, their total net assets have dropped from around $104 billion to $82 billion. Strategy co-founder Michael Saylor also cited these outflows in his comments on the BTC crash. In an X post, Saylor said that the capital markets are funding the AI buildout at a historic scale, with $400 billion deployed over six months, while BTC ETFs have seen $4 billion in outflows since May 14, pressuring the Bitcoin price. He declared that this is a capital rotation, not a BTC impairment, while adding that volatility creates opportunity. Crypto analyst Benjamin Cowen has reiterated that the Bitcoin price is simply following the four-year cycle. He also mentioned that the bull case for BTC is that if the economy is still doing well after the four-cycle low is put in, then it should have no problem starting its next bull market. Based on historical trends, the bear cycle low could happen by the fourth quarter of this year. Meanwhile, Cowen noted that midterm years always feel really bad for crypto, and that this one is even worse, since the Bitcoin price topped on apathy. He opined that Bitcoin will survive, although many crypto assets may die out. Crypto analyst Ali Martinez warned that BTC is not looking good at the moment and that the leading crypto could drop to the next major area of support between $54,000 and $50,000. At the time of writing, the Bitcoin price is trading at around $63,100, down in the last 24 hours, according to data from CoinMarketCap. Scott Matherson is a prominent crypto writer at NewsBTC with a knack for capturing the pulse of the market, covering pivotal shifts, technological advancements, and regulatory changes with precision. Having witnessed the evolving landscape of the crypto world firsthand, Scott is able to dissect complex crypto topics and present them in an accessible and engaging manner. Scott's dedication to clarity and accuracy has made him an indispensable asset, helping to demystify the complex world of cryptocurrency for countless readers. Scott Matherson is a prominent crypto writer at NewsBTC with a knack for capturing the pulse of the market, covering pivotal shifts, technological advancements, and regulatory changes with precision. Having witnessed the evolving landscape of the crypto world firsthand, Scott is able to dissect complex crypto topics and present them in an accessible and engaging manner. Scott's dedication to clarity and accuracy has made him an indispensable asset, helping to demystify the complex world of cryptocurrency for countless readers. Scott’s experience spans a number of industries outside of crypto including banking and investment. He has brought his vast experience from these industries into crypto, which allows him to understand even the most complex topics and break them down in a way that is easy for readers from all works of life to understand. Scott’s pieces have helped to break down cryptocurrency processes and how they work, as well as the underlying groundbreaking technology that makes them so important to everyday life. With years of experience in the crypto market, Scott began to focus on his true passion: writing. During this time, Scott has been able to author countless influential pieces that have drawn in millions of readers and have shaped public opinion across various important topics. His repertoire spans hundreds of articles on various sectors in the crypto industry, including decentralized finance (DeFi), decentralized exchanges (DEXes), Staking, Liquid Staking, emerging technologies, and non-fungible tokens (NFTs), among others. Scott’s influence is not just limited to the countless discussions that his publications have sparked but also as a consultant for major projects in the space. He has consulted on issues ranging from crypto regulations to new technology deployment. Scott’s expertise also spans community building and contributes to a number of causes to further the development of the crypto industry. Scott is an advocate for sustainable practices within the crypto industry and has championed discussions around green blockchain solutions. His ability to keep in line with market trends has made his work a favorite among crypto investors. In his personal life, Scott is an avid traveler and his exposure to the world and various way of life has helped him to understand how important technologies like the blockchain and cryptocurrencies are. This has been key in his understanding of its global impact, as well as his ability to connect socio-economic developments to technological trends around the globe like no one else. Scott is known for his work in community education to help people understand crypto technology and how its existence impacts their lives. He is a well-respected figure in his community, known for his work in helping to enlighten and inspire the next generation as they channel their energies into pressing issues. His work is a testament to his dedication and commitment to education and innovation, as well as the promotion of ethical practices in the rapidly developing world of cryptocurrencies. Scott stands steady in the frontlines of the crypto revolution and is committed to helping to shape a future that promotes the development of technology in an ethical manner that translates to the benefit of all in the society. Disclaimer: The information found on NewsBTC is for educational purposes only. It does not represent the opinions of NewsBTC on whether to buy, sell or hold any investments and naturally investing carries risks. You are advised to conduct your own research before making any investment decisions. Use information provided on this website entirely at your own risk. Monday’s Bitcoin (BTC) rebound—pushing back above the $63,00 area—has revived a major question: was last Friday’s drop to $59,000 the... The lead research analyst at Glassnode has highlighted how the Bitcoin supply clustered at the top levels might have to... A leading crypto analyst has further expressed their confidence that Dogecoin could be set for a bullish run in the... Strict editorial policy that focuses on accuracy, relevance, and impartiality Morbi pretium leo et nisl aliquam mollis. Quisque arcu lorem, ultricies quis pellentesque nec, ullamcorper eu odio. NewsBTC is a cryptocurrency news service that covers bitcoin news today, technical analysis & forecasts for bitcoin price and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening everyone about bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. We cover BTC news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various cryptocurrencies. © 2025 NewsBTC. All Rights Reserved. © 2025 NewsBTC. All Rights Reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Securitize moves closer to NYSE listing after SEC declares SPAC merger filing effective
URL: https://cryptobriefing.com/securitize-nyse-listing-sec-decision/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T17:45:39Z
Full Content:
Searching... The tokenization firm’s deal with Cantor Equity Partners II will go to a June 29 shareholder vote before a planned SECZ listing. Share Securitize moved closer to becoming a publicly traded company after the SEC declared effective the Form S-4 registration statement tied to its proposed merger with Cantor Equity Partners II. The transaction will go to CEPT shareholders for approval on June 29 and is expected to close shortly after if approved. The combined company is expected to operate as Securitize Corp. and trade on the NYSE under the ticker SECZ. Cantor Equity Partners II currently trades on Nasdaq under the ticker CEPT. The SEC declaration marks a key milestone for one of the largest regulated tokenization firms trying to enter public markets. Securitize said it had more than $4 billion in tokenized real world assets under management as of April 2026, with products tied to major asset managers including BlackRock, Apollo, BNY, Hamilton Lane, KKR, and VanEck. Securitize operates regulated broker dealer, transfer agent, fund administration, and trading infrastructure in the US and Europe, including an SEC regulated ATS and EU DLT Pilot Regime authorization. The listing push comes as tokenization gains momentum across traditional finance. Securitize recently announced a collaboration with the New York Stock Exchange to help develop tokenized securities infrastructure and digital transfer agent standards. The partnership is aimed at supporting blockchain based securities issuance and trading while preserving existing investor protections. Securitize has also partnered with Computershare to support issuer sponsored tokenized shares for US companies. The arrangement is designed to let public issuers offer tokenized equity alongside traditional shares without changing their existing capital structure. The company has continued expanding its institutional product lineup as well. Its partnership with BlackRock already helped scale BUIDL into one of the largest tokenized Treasury funds in the market, and the firms are planning a second tokenized fund through the BlackRock Daily Reinvestment Stablecoin Reserve Vehicle. Securitize has also expanded its trading infrastructure through integrations with market participants including Jump Trading and Jupiter, while continuing to support tokenized investment products from Apollo, Hamilton Lane, KKR, and VanEck. The proposed public listing would give investors direct exposure to the infrastructure layer behind tokenized capital markets, rather than only the funds or assets being tokenized. It also arrives as major exchanges, asset managers, and transfer agents move deeper into blockchain based securities infrastructure. The tokenization firm’s deal with Cantor Equity Partners II will go to a June 29 shareholder vote before a planned SECZ listing. Share Securitize moved closer to becoming a publicly traded company after the SEC declared effective the Form S-4 registration statement tied to its proposed merger with Cantor Equity Partners II. The transaction will go to CEPT shareholders for approval on June 29 and is expected to close shortly after if approved. The combined company is expected to operate as Securitize Corp. and trade on the NYSE under the ticker SECZ. Cantor Equity Partners II currently trades on Nasdaq under the ticker CEPT. The SEC declaration marks a key milestone for one of the largest regulated tokenization firms trying to enter public markets. Securitize said it had more than $4 billion in tokenized real world assets under management as of April 2026, with products tied to major asset managers including BlackRock, Apollo, BNY, Hamilton Lane, KKR, and VanEck. Securitize operates regulated broker dealer, transfer agent, fund administration, and trading infrastructure in the US and Europe, including an SEC regulated ATS and EU DLT Pilot Regime authorization. The listing push comes as tokenization gains momentum across traditional finance. Securitize recently announced a collaboration with the New York Stock Exchange to help develop tokenized securities infrastructure and digital transfer agent standards. The partnership is aimed at supporting blockchain based securities issuance and trading while preserving existing investor protections. Securitize has also partnered with Computershare to support issuer sponsored tokenized shares for US companies. The arrangement is designed to let public issuers offer tokenized equity alongside traditional shares without changing their existing capital structure. The company has continued expanding its institutional product lineup as well. Its partnership with BlackRock already helped scale BUIDL into one of the largest tokenized Treasury funds in the market, and the firms are planning a second tokenized fund through the BlackRock Daily Reinvestment Stablecoin Reserve Vehicle. Securitize has also expanded its trading infrastructure through integrations with market participants including Jump Trading and Jupiter, while continuing to support tokenized investment products from Apollo, Hamilton Lane, KKR, and VanEck. The proposed public listing would give investors direct exposure to the infrastructure layer behind tokenized capital markets, rather than only the funds or assets being tokenized. It also arrives as major exchanges, asset managers, and transfer agents move deeper into blockchain based securities infrastructure. All content is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. CryptoBriefing does not provide recommendations to buy, sell, or hold any asset or contract. See our Disclaimer & Risk Disclosure. © Decentral Media and Crypto Briefing® 2026. Sign in to your account Create your account Already have an account? Sign In Forgot your password? Sign In Daily news, analysis & market insights delivered free.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Data Centers Have a New Adversary: Tigers and Leopards at a Zoo
URL: https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/data-centers-have-a-new-adversary-tigers-and-leopards-at-a-zoo
Time Published: 2026-06-05T17:19:27Z
Description: A proposal for a data center in Nashville is facing off against the leopards and tigers of the city’s zoo.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 'Borderline dishonest': Analysts shred SpaceX's IPO filing, ringing alarm bells on its $1.77 trillion valuation
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/borderline-dishonest-analysts-shred-spacexs-171000969.html
Time Published: 2026-06-05T17:10:00Z
Description: Not all of Wall Street is buying Musk’s math.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: BlackRock-backed tokenization firm Securitize clears key hurdle to go public on NYSE
URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2026/06/05/blackrock-backed-tokenization-firm-securitize-clears-key-hurdle-to-go-public-on-nyse
Time Published: 2026-06-05T16:46:28Z
Full Content:
Securitize, the tokenization specialist backed by BlackRock, moved a step closer to becoming a publicly traded company after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved a key filing tied to its planned merger with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC). The agency declared Securitize's registration statement for its proposed combination with Cantor Equity Partners II (CEPT) effective. The merger is with a blank-check company sponsored by an affiliate of Cantor Fitzgerald, the companies said Friday. The deal now heads to a shareholder vote scheduled for June 29. If approved, the transaction is expected to close shortly thereafter, with the combined company trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "SECZ." The milestone comes as tokenization has emerged as one of the fastest-growing trends in finance. The process involves creating blockchain-based representations of traditional assets such as funds, bonds, private credit and equities. Proponents argue the technology can reduce settlement times, lower costs and enable assets to trade around the clock. The market has attracted growing interest from global banks and asset managers including BlackRock, Franklin Templeton, JPMorgan and Fidelity. The tokenized asset market nearly tripled in a year surpassing $30 billion, RWA.xyz data shows. Citi has projected tokenized assets could reach $5.5 trillion by 2030, while a joint report from Boston Consulting Group and Ripple estimated the market could grow to $18.9 trillion by 2033. Securitize has become one of the sector's most prominent infrastructure providers, supplying the tokenization, transfer-agent and trading technology behind products from firms including BlackRock, Apollo, KKR, Hamilton Lane and VanEck. The company's highest-profile partnership is with BlackRock's BUIDL fund, a tokenized money market fund launched in 2024 that has grown into one of the largest tokenized Treasury products in the market. The firm is also helping the New York Stock Exchange build its tokenized securities platform earlier this year. Securitize going forward with its plan to go public is notable as several crypto companies such as Kraken and Consensys have halted efforts amid turbulent crypto markets. More For You Equipment-financing lender Trad.Fi is working with W3 to automate capital workflows and bring real-economy business lending onto public blockchain rails. What to know: Disclosure & Polices: CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. CoinDesk has adopted a set of principles aimed at ensuring the integrity, editorial independence and freedom from bias of its publications. CoinDesk is part of Bullish (NYSE:BLSH), an institutionally focused global digital asset platform that provides market infrastructure and information services. Bullish owns and invests in digital asset businesses and digital assets and CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive Bullish equity-based compensation.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Glass maker HNGIL issues legal notice to BIRA 91 over outstanding dues and unlifted inventory
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/glass-maker-hngil-issues-legal-notice-to-bira-91-over-outstanding-dues-and-unlifted-inventory/article71066368.ece
Time Published: 2026-06-05T16:27:37Z
Full Content:
-116.67 -49.85 -167.00 -2,441.00 -16,198.00 -116.67 -49.85 -49.85 -167.00 -167.00 -2,441.00 FILE PHOTO: An employee carries Bira beer cans to deliver them to a customer at a liquor store in Mumbai, India | Photo Credit: FRANCIS MASCARENHAS Glass maker Hindusthan National Glass & Industries Ltd (HNGIL), which emerged from insolvency proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), has escalated its dispute with BIRA 91 maker B9 Beverages by claiming dues and warning of civil and criminal action over alleged non-lifting of customised bottles manufactured during its Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP). In the letter dated June 4, HNGIL said that a legal notice dated May 6 was issued to B9 Beverages Limited (BIRA) for recovery of ₹11.19 crore, including interest, storage and mould charges. Following this, Ankur Jain, founder and CEO of BIRA 91, responded via email the next day, sharing that the company was undergoing a recapitalisation process, which was anticipated to conclude by the end of the then financial quarter. “By way of said communication, he further sought additional indulgence of time and indicated an intention to lift the contracted stock following resumption of production in the succeeding quarter,” HNGIL represented in the letter. In the absence of an immediate and credible resolution, HNGIL is evaluating all remedies available to it under applicable law and equity, including proceedings for recovery of dues, damages, and initiation of appropriate proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against BIRA. In a fresh communication sent to B9 Beverages’ board and copied to its investors, including Peak XV, Sofina, BlackRock, Kirin Holdings and others, HNGIL alleged that more than 51 lakh customised glass bottles worth over ₹7 crore continue to remain at its facilities despite repeated assurances from the beer maker. This development follows a legal notice issued by HNGIL last month seeking recovery of more than ₹8 crore from B9 Beverages over alleged payment and contractual defaults. According to the latest notice, HNGIL said the transactions were undertaken while the company was undergoing CIRP under the IBC and that B9 Beverages was allegedly aware of the insolvency proceedings but continued placing purchase orders backed by bank guarantees. HNGIL alleged that despite encashing bank guarantees worth ₹3.91 crore, substantial dues remain outstanding and the brewer has failed to lift about 51.42 lakh customised bottles manufactured exclusively for it. The glassmaker has sought payment of ₹11.19 crore within 15 days and demanded a binding schedule for lifting the stock, failing which it said it would initiate legal proceedings. The company further alleged that B9 Beverages had acknowledged certain pending transactions and committed to payments and stock lifting schedules during the discussions, but failed to fulfil those commitments. According to HNGIL, the unlifted stock has blocked working capital and warehouse capacity, while resulting in additional storage and handling costs. It said HNGIL itself recently came out from a prolonged insolvency resolution process and is presently engaged in the revival and stabilisation of its business operations. The company exited the IBC process last year after a consortium led by Uganda-based Madhvani Group’s INSCO implemented a resolution plan for the company, bringing to an end a multi-year insolvency proceeding. The company has since focused on operational revival and improving financial performance. “The continued and unjustified blockage of inventory, warehousing infrastructure, and working capital consequent upon BIRA’s default imposes a material, disproportionate, and unsustainable financial burden on HNGIL,” it said. Published on June 5, 2026 Copyright© 2026, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments. We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions | Institutional Subscriber
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Traders fully bet on Fed rate hike this year after jobs data
URL: https://financialpost.com/news/economy/traders-bet-on-fed-rate-hike
Time Published: 2026-06-05T15:36:38Z
Description: Traders in the US$31 trillion Treasuries market fully priced in a Federal Reserve interest-rate hike by the end of this year. Read more here
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Webull Adds Mutual Funds to IRA Accounts
URL: https://www.wealthmanagement.com/mutual-funds/webull-adds-mutual-funds-to-ira-accounts
Time Published: 2026-06-05T15:31:17Z
Full Content:
The launch, now in beta, will give eligible customers with IRA accounts access to professionally-managed mutual funds. June 5, 2026 Online investment portal Webull is launching mutual funds for IRA accounts, the latest move in a trend of self-service platforms encroaching on investment products that used to be the domain of financial advisors and retirement plans. The mutual funds are now available in beta for select U.S.-based customers, with a full rollout for all IRA accounts planned for a later date. This will allow customers with IRA accounts to add professionally-managed mutual funds directly within the Webull platform. Webull indicated it will continue to add new funds and CUSIPs to the product lineup, with support for ACAT transfers of mutual fund positions planned for a future release. “Expanding access to mutual funds within IRA accounts allows investors to more easily diversify their portfolios and manage their retirement savings through a single platform,” said Lindsay Ryan, head of U.S. products at Webull, in a statement. “By bringing more investment choices into one streamlined experience, we’re helping clients simplify long-term financial planning and stay focused on achieving their goals.” Related:New Report Challenges Methodology in Long-Running Active Scorecard For St. Petersburg, Fla.-based Webull, the mutual funds are the latest addition, as it has broadened its capabilities since its launch in 2018 as an equities-trading platform, with the expansion to options trading in 2019. Last year, it expanded its advisory services by adding BlackRock model portfolios to its product lineup. That followed the 2024 addition of futures and commodities trading. (In 2023, however, it was ordered to pay $3 million in fines to settle charges that it didn’t perform the necessary due diligence when screening customers.) The company went public via a SPAC. Overall, Webull supports 27 million customers in 16 markets across North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and Latin America. More broadly, self-service investment platforms have been increasingly sought to target the advisor channel. Robinhood unveiled a series of enhancements at its conference this week, including reducing the interest rates it charges for borrowing against investments and widening access to the financial advisor referral network it developed with TradePMR, which it ran as a pilot earlier this year. It also now offers access to ETFs, futures contracts, managed accounts and tax loss harvesting services. Last year, the company also launched Robinhood Ventures, a closed-end fund designed to give retail advisors access to private companies. Elaine Misonzhnik Senior Editor, Investments, Wealth Management Elaine Misonzhnik is Senior Editor, Investments at Wealth Management, focusing on alternative investments. She has over 20 years of experience as a business reporter and editor, including for Retail Traffic and National Real Estate Investor magazines. Prior to her current role, she was the Executive Editor at Wealth Management Real Estate, which covered the intersection of commercial real estate and institutional investment. INSITE 2026 Conference Insider Wealth Management EDGE Trusts & Estates for Advisors Get the news that matters 2026 Wealth Management Industry Awards Finalists Announced Copyright © 2026 Informa Connect Limited. Registered in England & Wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Ethereum faces $547M liquidation risk as price nears critical levels
URL: https://cryptobriefing.com/ethereum-faces-547m-liquidation-risk-as-price-nears-critical-levels/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T15:25:33Z
Full Content:
Searching... This article examines how recent events may relate to prediction market pricing. It reflects interpretive analysis of publicly available information and is provided for informational purposes only. Share A significant risk of Ethereum liquidations is looming, with 343,075 ETH, valued at approximately $547 million, approaching critical liquidation thresholds, according to a report by @lookonchain. This development could potentially trigger a cascade of liquidations if Ethereum’s price continues to decline, adding pressure to DeFi markets. The data highlights specific price points where substantial amounts of ETH are at risk, including 46,741 ETH at $1,565 and 137,908 ETH at $1,362. Market participants are closely monitoring these levels, as forced selling may exacerbate volatility and market stress. Watch for Ethereum’s price movements towards the identified liquidation levels, as this could trigger broader market volatility. Key actors such as the Ethereum Foundation and major ETF issuers like BlackRock and Fidelity may play roles in influencing market dynamics. Developments that could stabilize or further destabilize Ethereum pricing include regulatory announcements, technological upgrades, or macroeconomic shifts impacting risk sentiment. Monitoring these factors will be crucial in assessing the potential for further liquidations or recovery in Ethereum’s price trajectory. Classifier accuracy: 28/153 (18%) correct on market direction (4hr window). Get prediction market intelligence as a structured API feed. Early access waitlist. This article contains analysis of publicly available information and market data and is for informational purposes only. It does not constitute investment advice or a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any asset or contract. Content may include AI-assisted interpretation and may be incomplete or subject to change. Market conditions may evolve rapidly, and the timing of information may affect how it is interpreted. Market participants may act on similar information at or around the time it becomes available. You are solely responsible for any decisions made based on this content. For additional details, please review our full Disclaimer & Risk Disclosure. Gloria API — Event-driven market intelligence, structured for analysis. All content is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. CryptoBriefing does not provide recommendations to buy, sell, or hold any asset or contract. See our Disclaimer & Risk Disclosure. © Decentral Media and Crypto Briefing® 2026. Sign in to your account Create your account Already have an account? Sign In Forgot your password? Sign In Daily news, analysis & market insights delivered free.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Securitize and Cantor Equity Partners II Announce SEC Declaration of Effectiveness of Registration Statement on Form S-4
URL: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/securitize-and-cantor-equity-partners-ii-announce-sec-declaration-of-effectiveness-of-registration-statement-on-form-s-4-302792784.html
Time Published: 2026-06-05T14:45:00Z
Full Content:
Searching for your content... In-Language News Contact Us 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET Jun 05, 2026, 10:45 ET Share this article Proposed transaction moves Securitize closer to becoming a publicly traded company MIAMI and NEW YORK, June 5, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- Securitize, Inc. ("Securitize" or the "Company"), and Cantor Equity Partners II, Inc. (Nasdaq: CEPT) ("CEPT"), a publicly traded special purpose acquisition company sponsored by an affiliate of Cantor Fitzgerald, today announced that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has declared effective the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (as amended, the "Registration Statement") filed by Securitize Holdings, Inc. ("Pubco") in connection with the previously announced proposed business combination between Securitize and CEPT. The SEC's declaration of effectiveness marks an important milestone in the proposed transaction and moves Securitize substantially closer to becoming a publicly traded company. The proposed business combination will be submitted to CEPT shareholders of record as of May 11, 2026 (the "Record Date"), for approval at a special meeting scheduled for June 29, 2026, and if approved, is expected to close shortly thereafter, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Upon closing of the transaction, the combined company is expected to operate under the name Securitize Corp., and its shares are expected to trade on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "SECZ." "This marks another important milestone for Securitize and for the broader institutional adoption of tokenization," said Carlos Domingo, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Securitize. "Over the past several years, we have built regulated infrastructure designed to bring capital markets onchain in partnership with many of the world's leading financial institutions. Becoming a public company would position Securitize to continue scaling that infrastructure globally as tokenization increasingly becomes part of mainstream financial markets." Continued Momentum Across Tokenization Since announcing the proposed business combination, Securitize has continued to expand its position as a leading provider of regulated tokenization infrastructure for institutional capital markets, including: About SecuritizeSecuritize, the world's leader in tokenizing real-world assets with $4B+ AUM (as of April 2026), is bringing the world onchain through tokenized funds in partnership with top-tier asset managers, such as Apollo, BlackRock, BNY, Hamilton Lane, KKR, VanEck and others.In the U.S., Securitize operates through its affiliates, including Securitize Markets, LLC, an SEC-registered broker-dealer that operates an SEC-regulated Alternative Trading System (ATS); Securitize Transfer Agent, LLC, an SEC-registered transfer agent; Securitize Capital LLC, an Exempt Reporting Adviser; and Securitize Fund Services, LLC, which provides fund administration and digital asset reporting services. In Europe, Securitize operates through its affiliate Securitize Europe Brokerage and Markets, S.A., which is fully authorized as an Investment Firm and operates a Trading & Settlement System (TSS) under the EU DLT Pilot Regime, making Securitize the only company licensed to operate regulated digital-securities infrastructure across both the U.S. and EU. Securitize has also been recognized as a 2026 Forbes Top 50 Fintech company. For more information, please visit:Website | X/Twitter | LinkedIn Background Information on Securitize's Business Combination On October 28, 2025, Securitize, Inc. ("Securitize") and Cantor Equity Partners II, Inc. (Nasdaq: CEPT) ("CEPT"), a special purpose acquisition company sponsored by an affiliate of Cantor Fitzgerald, announced that they entered into a definitive business combination agreement for a proposed business combination (the "Proposed Business Combination"). Upon closing of the Proposed Business Combination, the combined company, Securitize Corp. ("Pubco"), is expected to become publicly listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol "SECZ". The special meeting of CEPT Shareholders to approve the Business Combination has been scheduled for June 29, 2026, and, if approved, the Business Combination is expected to close shortly thereafter, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Additional information about the Proposed Business Combination, including a copy of the business combination agreement, is available in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by CEPT, and in the registration statement on Form S-4 filed by Securitize and Pubco with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and available at www.sec.gov. Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements regarding the proposed business combination involving Securitize, CEPT and Pubco, the anticipated listing of Pubco on NYSE under the ticker symbol "SECZ," the expected timing and completion of the Proposed Business Combination, the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Business Combination, Securitize's growth strategy and expansion plans, market opportunity in tokenization and digital assets, regulatory developments, and future financial performance. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "believe," "project," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "strategy," "future," "opportunity," "potential," "plan," "may," "should," "will," "would," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," and similar expressions. These statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: the risk that the Proposed Business Combination may not be completed in a timely manner or at all; the failure to satisfy closing conditions, including CEPT shareholder approval; the level of redemptions by CEPT's public shareholders; the ability of Pubco to meet the requisite NYSE listing standards; regulatory developments relating to digital assets and tokenization; market volatility; competition; and those risks factors described in the filings of Securitize, CEPT and/or Pubco with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. None of Securitize, CEPT or Pubco undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Important Information and Where to Find It In connection with the Proposed Business Combination, Securitize and Pubco have filed a registration statement on Form S-4 (the "Registration Statement") with the SEC, which has been declared effective. Securitize and Pubco will promptly file a final prospectus with respect to the securities to be issued in connection with the Proposed Business Combination and CEPT will promptly file and mail a definitive proxy statement with respect to the shareholder meeting of CEPT to vote on the Proposed Business Combination. CEPT shareholders and other interested persons are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/final prospectus, along with other documents filed with the SEC by Securitize, CEPT and/or Pubco, because these documents contain important information about Securitize, CEPT, Pubco and the Proposed Business Combination. Copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NEITHER THE SEC NOR ANY STATE SECURITIES REGULATORY AGENCY HAS APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED THE TRANSACTIONS DESCRIBED IN THIS DOCUMENT, PASSED UPON THE MERITS OR FAIRNESS OF THE PROPOSED BUSINESS COMBINATION OR RELATED TRANSACTIONS OR PASSED UPON THE ADEQUACY OR ACCURACY OF THE DISCLOSURE IN THIS DOCUMENT. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY CONSTITUTES A CRIMINAL OFFENSE. Participants in the Solicitation Securitize, CEPT, Pubco and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed under SEC rules to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from CEPT's shareholders in connection with the Proposed Business Combination. Information regarding the names and interests of such persons is, or will be, contained in the filings of Securitize, CEPT and/or Pubco with the SEC, including the Registration Statement and the proxy statement/prospectus. No Offer or Solicitation This press release is for informational purposes only and does not constitute a proxy statement or the solicitation of a proxy, consent or authorization with respect to any securities or in respect of the Proposed Business Combination, nor shall it constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an exemption therefrom. Securitize Media Contact: Tom Murphy [email protected] Investor RelationsSam Ross[email protected] SOURCE Securitize Securitize, Inc. (which has announced a proposed business combination with Cantor Equity Partners II, Inc. (Nasdaq: CEPT)), today announced financial ... Securitize, Inc. (which has announced a proposed business combination with Cantor Equity Partners II, Inc. (Nasdaq: CEPT)), the leading platform for... Banking & Financial Services Financial Technology Financial Technology Acquisitions, Mergers and Takeovers Do not sell or share my personal information:
--------------------------------------------------

Title: The big acquisitions Jamie Dimon rumored to be eyeing after revealing $20B war chest
URL: https://nypost.com/2026/06/05/business/the-acquisitions-jamie-dimon-could-be-eyeing-after-20b-war-chest-reveal/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T14:08:47Z
Full Content:
Switch between CA and NY editions here. See more of our coverage in your search results. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon is on the prowl to further expand the nation’s largest bank – possibly by snapping up a wealth-management firm or a private credit business, bankers tell On The Money. While investors shouldn’t necessarily expect a deal imminently, players involved with bank-focused mergers and acquisitions are scrambling to come up with deals that might appeal to Dimon, sources said. The frenzy is ramping up after Dimon’s recent revelation that the bank could spend as much as $20 billion on a big acquisition, people with direct knowledge of the matter say. On its face, JPMorgan Chase seems to do it all: investment banking and commercial banking; trading, small business lending, credit cards and savings accounts. But there are gaps in its model that can be filled or grown through dealmaking. With $4.5 trillion in assets and $2.68 trillion in deposits, bankers say JPMorgan Chase has already exceeded a federal regulatory “cap” that hamstrings bank acquisition growth; barring a waiver for a government-induced bailout, it will face resistance buying a traditional bank. Private credit, which is essentially a shadow lending business with fewer regulatory controls, has hit some rough spots, but it remains a big and lucrative business for Wall Street and private equity and Dimon has mentioned expanding in this area. One private equity executive said that in the days following Dimon’s remarks, rumors circulated in PE circles that JPM might be interested in buying the Carlyle Group’s in-house private credit division, Carlyle Global Credit, if it should ever be put on the market. Dimon has said some not-so-nice things about private credit’s well publicized issues (Dimon says he’s worried about “cockroaches” infecting the business.) That said, I am told he likes the business when it’s run well like Carlyle’s global credit business that manages about $200 billion in assets (stuff like private lines of credit, various types of non-banking lending etc.). The firm as a whole is valued at just about $16 billion, so you would think it fits neatly into Dimon’s stated spending budget. Still, it would be a monster deal (a person with knowledge of the thinking of Carlyle’s management says it’s not for sale) and, probably the biggest since Dimon became CEO in 2006. Recall, his purchase of Bear Stearns was big in terms of scale (14,000 employees and an array of businesses) but it was done during the 2008 financial crisis and he got it on the cheap (just $1.4 billion). He purchased the ailing First Republic Bank in 2023 during the regional bank crisis for $10.6 billion, which was the largest dollar amount he spent so far. Another business Dimon has been eyeing, On The Money has learned, is so-called infrastructure management and investment, much the same way money-management powerhouse BlackRock ventured into this business with its 2024 purchase of Global Infrastructure Partners. “I don’t see him doing anything with a traditional bank,” is how one rival CEO described Dimon’s thinking. The executive cited regulations of so-called systemically important financial institutions that are deemed too big to fail. JPMorgan falls squarely into that category to stay the least, and receives significant scrutiny because of federally insured deposits in checking and savings accounts. This executive added that wealth management – particularly for high-net worth individuals – is another area Dimon has targeted for growth. Sign up to receive On The Money by Charlie Gasparino in your inbox every Thursday. Please provide a valid email. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Never miss a story. A JPMorgan executive close to Dimon who is authorized to speak to the press said he doesn’t expect any immediate moves. His boss’s “first priority is organic growth, but you always have to keep your eyes open for small acquisitions.” He added that “Jamie doesn’t have anything in mind right now, and we have plenty of organic opportunities. He’s very practical–buying at a good price.” I’ve known Dimon for years; he was mentored on Wall Street by legendary dealmaker Sandy Weill, partnering with him to create Citigroup through a series of acquisitions. He became CEO of JPM by merging the regional bank he ran, Bank One, with JPMorgan, which had just acquired the money-center bank Chase some six years earlier. In other words, he knows how to do deals and won’t hesitate to pounce for the right one.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Orion Corporation: Disclosure Under Chapter 9 Section 10 of the Securities Market Act (BlackRock, Inc.)
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2026/06/05/3307456/0/en/Orion-Corporation-Disclosure-Under-Chapter-9-Section-10-of-the-Securities-Market-Act-BlackRock-Inc.html
Time Published: 2026-06-05T14:00:00Z
Full Content:
June 05, 2026 10:00 ET | Source: Orion Oyj Orion Oyj ORION CORPORATION STOCK EXCHANGE RELEASE / MAJOR SHAREHOLDER ANNOUNCEMENTS5 June 2026 at 17.00 EEST Orion Corporation: Disclosure Under Chapter 9 Section 10 of the Securities Market Act (BlackRock, Inc.) Orion Corporation has received a disclosure under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according to which the total number of Orion shares owned directly and indirectly by BlackRock, Inc. and its funds, and the total number of Orion shares owned directly, indirectly and through financial instruments by BlackRock, Inc. and its funds increased on 4 June 2026 above five (5) per cent of Orion Corporation’s total shares. Total positions of BlackRock, Inc. and its funds subject to notification: Notified details of the resulting situation on the date on which the threshold was crossed: Point A: Shares and voting rights: Point B: Financial instruments according to SMA 9:6a: Orion Corporation Contact person:Tuukka Hirvonen, Investor Relations, Orion Corporationtel. +358 10 426 2721 Publisher:Orion CorporationCommunicationsOrionintie 1A, FI-02200 Espoo, Finlandwww.orionpharma.com Orion Pharma is a globally operating Nordic pharmaceutical company – a builder of well-being for over a hundred years. We develop, manufacture and market human and veterinary pharmaceuticals as well as active pharmaceutical ingredients, combining our trusted expertise with continuous innovation. We have an extensive portfolio of proprietary and generic medicines and consumer health products. The core therapy areas of our pharmaceutical R&D are oncology and pain. Proprietary products developed by us are used to treat cancer, respiratory diseases and neurological diseases, among others. In 2025 our net sales amounted to EUR 1,890 million, and we employ about 4,000 professionals worldwide, dedicated to building well-being. ORION CORPORATION STOCK EXCHANGE RELEASE / MAJOR SHAREHOLDER ANNOUNCEMENTS1 June 2026 at 14.00 EEST Orion Corporation: Disclosure Under Chapter 9 Section 10 of the Securities Market Act... ORION CORPORATION PRESS RELEASE 30 MAY 2026 at 21:30 EEST Orion Pharma announces first results from Phase 1/2 TEADES trial with TEAD inhibitor ODM-212 in patients with advanced solid...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Institutions Sold 52,500 BTC Through ETFs in Q1. Bitcoin ETF Outflows June 2026 Hit Records—But the Streak Is Finally Over
URL: https://bitcoinfoundation.org/news/crypto-etfs-news/etf-outflows-june-first-week/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T12:16:25Z
Full Content:
Bitcoin ETF outflows June 2026 broke all records, but the red streak has finally ended. We break down the latest bitcoin ETF flows May June 2026 and explain what’s happening in the market. In the Q1 of 2026, institutional investors reduced their positions in US spot bitcoin ETFs by 17%, from 313K BTC▼$61,690.00 to 261K BTC. In dollar terms, the value of their positions fell 35% to $17.8B. Hot topic: Standard Chartered — Bitcoin Bottom Is Near, Market Enters BTC Buy Zone The share of 13F investors in total bitcoin ETF assets dropped from 24.7% to 20.8%, according to a CoinShares report. These bitcoin ETF flows June 2026 latest numbers reflect a major risk reassessment by large players. The selling coincided with a market correction. During the reporting period, bitcoin’s (BTC) price fell 22% to $68K, and in February briefly dipped below $60K, a nearly 50% drop from the October 2025 all-time high of $126K. At the time of publication, bitcoin trades near $61,900, and Ethereum (ETH) at $1,660. Read more: BlackRock vs Fidelity — Who Controls the Future of Bitcoin ETFs? Analyzing bitcoin ETF flows May June 2026, the bulk of selling came from hedge funds and brokerages. Hedge funds cut positions by 31,400 BTC, down 39%, while brokerages reduced by 18,800 BTC, down 53%. Jane Street trimmed its holdings by 10,800 BTC, and Morgan Stanley closed its entire 8,300 BTC position, which analysts linked to the launch of its own MSBT fund. Investment advisors, the largest holder group with 150,300 BTC, showed resilience, cutting positions by just 5.9%. Bank holdings increased by 7,800 BTC to over 15,200 BTC. JPMorgan Chase added 3,000 BTC, Wells Fargo grew its position by 4,000 BTC, and Citigroup disclosed owning 97 BTC for the first time. Among sovereign funds, Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala stood out, acquiring 1,100 BTC. Meanwhile, endowments, including Harvard University, which sold 1,300 BTC, reduced holdings by 40%. CoinShares analyst Matt Kimmell explained: “The data is consistent with historical market behavior during drawdowns. Short-term leveraged strategies are unwinding, and supply is redistributing from momentum players to long-term holders: advisors, banks, and sovereign funds.” Read more: Best Crypto ETF Contracts for 2026 — Which ETFs Will Dominate Trading This Year? From May 15 to June 3, spot bitcoin ETFs faced their longest outflow streak since their 2024 launch—13 consecutive trading days. Bitcoin ETF flows news June 2026 shows that funds lost $4.33B, roughly 59,400 BTC, during this period. According to Galaxy Research, several timeframes set new records: Bloomberg Senior Analyst Eric Balchunas noted that the withdrawals have effectively erased the year’s net inflows, pushing them back into negative territory. Still, he emphasized that cumulative net inflows remain at $55B, and BlackRock’s IBIT is still in the green for the year. BAD TIMES: Bitcoin ETFs in a big step back mode.. $4.4b out over past month which sent the YTD number negative again (it had worked hard to get positive too). That said, some silver lining: $IBIT & a few others STILL positive YTD (unreal) and total net lifetime is still +$55b… pic.twitter.com/VzaijnWhx8 Read more: Can Bitcoin Crash to $20K in 2026? What Could Trigger a Historic Crypto Market Collapse Bitcoin ETF inflows June 2026 have finally been recorded. On June 5, spot bitcoin ETFs posted a net inflow of $3.05M, ending the record 13-day outflow streak. Detailed bitcoin ETF flows June 5 2026 show these: Total assets under management in bitcoin ETFs have fallen to $80.40B from $104.29B at the start of the streak. Bitcoin holdings in the funds have dropped to 1.277 million BTC, about 7.2% below the October 2025 peak. Ethereum ETFs also ended a 17-day outflow streak, attracting $19.30M—entirely from BlackRock’s ETHA. Ethereum ETF assets under management stand at $9.78B, roughly $2B below the start-of-year peak. The only product to avoid outflows during the May sell-off was the Hyperliquid ETF, launched in mid-May. It has consistently attracted capital. On June 5, inflows reached $12.15M, and assets have grown to $185.68M. Learn more: How to Earn Yield on Bitcoin — Top BTCFi Strategies 2026 Crypto journalist and content creator specializing in market analytics, regulatory developments, and the social impact of cryptocurrency. With experience at BeInCrypto and Cointelegraph, she covers both breaking news and creative… Bitcoin price has already bottomed near $60,000 and may rally harder once it clears $90,000, BitMEX... Debates involving Peter Schiff on Bitcoin now feature regularly within today’s financial... The Bitcoin Foundation editorial team examined what is happening in the large corporate segment and... Morgan Stanley is listing its first proprietary spot BTC▼$61,690.00-ETF on NYSE Arca on April 8,... KULR Bitcoin holdings appear to be under pressure after the company moved 300 BTC▼$61,690.00 to... The filmmakers claim Satoshi Nakamoto was a pseudonym for two cryptographers, both now deceased.... Your trusted source for cryptocurrency news, market analysis, and blockchain insights.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Bitcoin Faces Pressure As Investors Rotate Capital Into AI Buildout: Saylor
URL: http://www.newsbtc.com/bitcoin-news/bitcoin-faces-pressure-as-investors-rotate-capital-into-ai-buildout-saylor/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T10:30:29Z
Full Content:
Strict editorial policy that focuses on accuracy, relevance, and impartiality Morbi pretium leo et nisl aliquam mollis. Quisque arcu lorem, ultricies quis pellentesque nec, ullamcorper eu odio. Bitcoin spot ETFs have now recorded net outflows in 17 of the last 19 days, with investors pulling a combined $5.6 billion from the products during that stretch. The numbers have pushed year-to-date flows for US-traded Bitcoin ETFs into negative territory, landing at negative $2.17 billion. Bloomberg ETF analyst James Seyffart put the 13-day outflow streak in sharper relief, reporting that roughly $4.4 billion worth of Bitcoin was sold through those products over the past month alone. Since May 14, Bitcoin has fallen about 20%, dropping from $82,040 to around $64,000. The slide accelerated after Strategy, the business intelligence firm led by executive chairman Michael Saylor, disclosed it had sold 32 BTC for approximately $2.5 million — a small fraction of its total holdings, but enough to rattle sentiment across the broader market. Capital markets are funding the AI buildout at historic scale: ~$400B over 6 months. Bitcoin ETFs have seen ~$4B of outflows since May 14, pressuring $BTC. This is a capital rotation, not a Bitcoin impairment. Volatility creates opportunity. — Michael Saylor (@saylor) June 4, 2026 Saylor took to X on Thursday to offer his explanation for the drop. Capital markets are funding artificial intelligence infrastructure at what he described as a historic scale, drawing money away from Bitcoin and other assets in the process. According to Saylor, more than $400 billion has been directed into AI-related investments over the past six months, with major Wall Street institutions joining the push. That flood of capital, he argued, is behind the outflows hitting Bitcoin ETFs — not any fundamental weakness in Bitcoin itself. He framed the pullback as a buying window. “Volatility creates opportunity,” Saylor said. Not every fund has been caught in the tide. The BlackRock iShares Bitcoin Trust and Grayscale’s Mini Bitcoin Trust have both held onto positive flows since January 1, reports indicate. Across all US-traded Bitcoin spot ETFs, the cumulative lifetime net inflow still stands at roughly $54 billion — a figure that reflects sustained demand since the products launched just over two years ago. The overall picture is one of short-term stress against a backdrop of longer-term capital commitment. Whether the AI spending wave continues to crowd out Bitcoin investment, or whether the two can attract separate pools of money, remains an open question. Featured image from Pexels, chart from TradingView They say journalists never truly clock out. But for Christian, that's not just a metaphor, it's a lifestyle. By day, he navigates the ever-shifting tides of the cryptocurrency market, wielding words like a seasoned editor and crafting articles that decipher the jargon for the masses. When the PC goes on hibernate mode, however, his pursuits take a more mechanical (and sometimes philosophical) turn. They say journalists never truly clock out. But for Christian, that's not just a metaphor, it's a lifestyle. By day, he navigates the ever-shifting tides of the cryptocurrency market, wielding words like a seasoned editor and crafting articles that decipher the jargon for the masses. When the PC goes on hibernate mode, however, his pursuits take a more mechanical (and sometimes philosophical) turn. Christian's journey with the written word began long before the age of Bitcoin. In the hallowed halls of academia, he honed his craft as a feature writer for his college paper. This early love for storytelling paved the way for a successful stint as an editor at a data engineering firm, where his first-month essay win funded a months-long supply of doggie and kitty treats – a testament to his dedication to his furry companions (more on that later). Christian then roamed the world of journalism, working at newspapers in Canada and even South Korea. He finally settled down at a local news giant in his hometown in the Philippines for a decade, becoming a total news junkie. But then, something new caught his eye: cryptocurrency. It was like a treasure hunt mixed with storytelling - right up his alley! So, he landed a killer gig at NewsBTC, where he's one of the go-to guys for all things crypto. He breaks down this confusing stuff into bite-sized pieces, making it easy for anyone to understand (he salutes his management team for teaching him this skill). Think Christian's all work and no play? Not a chance! When he's not at his computer, you'll find him indulging his passion for motorbikes. A true gearhead, Christian loves tinkering with his bike and savoring the joy of the open road on his 320-cc Yamaha R3. Once a speed demon who hit 120mph (a feat he vowed never to repeat), he now prefers leisurely rides along the coast, enjoying the wind in his thinning hair. Speaking of chill, Christian's got a crew of furry friends waiting for him at home. Two cats and a dog. He swears cats are way smarter than dogs (sorry, Grizzly), but he adores them all anyway. Apparently, watching his pets just chillin’ helps him analyze and write meticulously formatted articles even better. Here's the thing about this guy: He works a lot, but he keeps himself fueled by enough coffee to make it through the day - and some seriously delicious (Filipino) food. He says a delectable meal is the secret ingredient to a killer article. And after a long day of crypto crusading, he unwinds with some rum (mixed with milk) while watching slapstick movies. Looking ahead, Christian sees a bright future with NewsBTC. He says he sees himself privileged to be part of an awesome organization, sharing his expertise and passion with a community he values, and fellow editors - and bosses - he deeply respects. So, the next time you tread into the world of cryptocurrency, remember the man behind the words – the crypto crusader, the grease monkey, and the feline philosopher, all rolled into one. Disclaimer: The information found on NewsBTC is for educational purposes only. It does not represent the opinions of NewsBTC on whether to buy, sell or hold any investments and naturally investing carries risks. You are advised to conduct your own research before making any investment decisions. Use information provided on this website entirely at your own risk. Monday’s Bitcoin (BTC) rebound—pushing back above the $63,00 area—has revived a major question: was last Friday’s drop to $59,000 the... The lead research analyst at Glassnode has highlighted how the Bitcoin supply clustered at the top levels might have to... Following Bitcoin’s rebound from last week’s dip below $59,000, the market is now weighing whether the recent price crash has... Strict editorial policy that focuses on accuracy, relevance, and impartiality Morbi pretium leo et nisl aliquam mollis. Quisque arcu lorem, ultricies quis pellentesque nec, ullamcorper eu odio. NewsBTC is a cryptocurrency news service that covers bitcoin news today, technical analysis & forecasts for bitcoin price and other altcoins. Here at NewsBTC, we are dedicated to enlightening everyone about bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. We cover BTC news related to bitcoin exchanges, bitcoin mining and price forecasts for various cryptocurrencies. © 2025 NewsBTC. All Rights Reserved. © 2025 NewsBTC. All Rights Reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Change drivers : creating industry-wide impact
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/startups/change-drivers-creating-industry-wide-impact/articleshow/131528018.cms
Time Published: 2026-06-05T09:54:21Z
Full Content:
(Catch all the Technology News News, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) ...more Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Other useful Links Top Calculators Top Slideshow Top Story Listing Top Prime Articles Top Definitions Top Commodities Private Companies Top Market Pages Latest News follow us on Download ET App:
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Indiana’s Private Equity Power Play
URL: http://prospect.org/2026/06/05/jun-2026-indianas-private-equity-power-play/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T09:10:00Z
Full Content:
This article appears in the June 2026 issue of The American Prospect magazine. If you’d like to receive our next issue in your mailbox, please subscribe here. Lucas Waterfill, a 35-year-old comedian based in Indianapolis, bought his 1,200-square-foot, three-bedroom, two-bathroom home on the city’s southeast side five years ago. He previously lived in Plainfield, a quiet suburb on the western outskirts of Indianapolis. “It’s just a little dollhouse, not that big, but it works for me,” Waterfill told the Prospect. But while the house may be small, the monthly payment for electricity has gotten bigger. Waterfill said his last “major bill” came out to $545; he used to pay anywhere from $350 to $400 per month. “I’m trying to do everything I can to cut costs, like turn off lights and not use my AC or heat as much,” Waterfill said. “It’s untenable.” More from James Baratta Living with a disability and on a fixed income, Waterfill describes himself as middle-class. When we spoke, he almost regretfully recalled having to ask his parents for help to make ends meet. “It’s not realistic for a person trying to make it middle-class to pay that much for the basics,” Waterfill said, adding that his efforts to obtain energy assistance have yet to bear any fruit. Waterfill is one of some 500,000 customers served by AES Indiana, formerly Indianapolis Power & Light. The electric utility serves the Indianapolis metropolitan area and parts of central Indiana. It was acquired by the multinational utility holding company AES in 2001, and rebranded as AES Indiana in 2021. AES reported a net income of $900 million for 2025. According to the Energy and Policy Institute (EPI), Andrés Gluski, the company’s chief executive officer, made almost $9.2 million last year, slightly below the $12.3 million in average take-home pay EPI tracked in an analysis of executives at 51 investor-owned utilities. Indiana remains one of the only states that cannot approve or reject utility takeover deals. Waterfill, like other AES Indiana customers, occasionally receives emails from the utility with tips on how to cut costs. “They put the onus on us, which I think is a slap in the face when they’re making all this profit,” he told the Prospect. “I need my wheelchair. I need my lifts.” Earlier this year, Indiana lawmakers passed sweeping legislation aimed at lowering Hoosiers’ electricity costs. House Enrolled Act 1002, which was signed into law by Gov. Mike Braun (R) on February 26, establishes multiyear rate plans based on performance incentives tied to affordability and reliability, bans utility shutoffs during heat emergencies, and requires utilities to establish energy assistance programs for low-income customers. What it did not do was give the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) authority over mergers and acquisitions involving the state’s regulated utilities. Consequently, Indiana remains one of the only states that cannot approve or reject takeover deals. One such deal is set to proceed imminently, and Hoosiers are furious about what it could do to their utility bills. In March, AES announced plans to be acquired by BlackRock-owned Global Infrastructure Partners and Swedish private equity firm EQT Group, with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) and Qatar Investment Authority underwriting the agreement. The acquisition, which includes the company’s utilities in Indiana and Ohio, has an enterprise value of $33.4 billion, with consolidated net debt totaling a whopping $27.2 billion. BlackRock’s purchase of AES is the latest in a spree of private equity purchases of power companies, which critics believe could lead to rate hikes and gouging of customers. It’s also among the largest private equity utility buyouts to date, second only to the acquisition of TXU Corporation by KKR, TPG Capital, and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners in 2007. That buyout had an enterprise value of $45 billion. Seven years after TXU’s private equity owners rebranded it and split up the business, the generically renamed Energy Future Holdings went bust. While there are some parallels between the two buyouts, AES derives more of its earnings from regulated utility operations and long-term contracted renewables, rather than so-called merchant generation, or the sale of power to the grid. Still, the logic behind both buyouts hinges on the assumption that cash flows will remain stable enough to sustain a highly leveraged capital structure over the long term. And if the new owners feel compelled to increase the cash flows to service the debt, customers like Lucas Waterfill could pay the price. FALLOUT FROM THE ANNOUNCEMENT forced AES Indiana to postpone all three of its community open houses “out of an abundance of caution,” with the utility citing safety concerns related to “threats of violence on social media,” a March 6 press release explains. At the time of writing, new dates have not been announced. Later that month, the IURC launched an investigative inquiry into energy affordability with an hours-long public hearing attended by Indiana’s big five investor-owned utilities. After AES Indiana’s presentation, IURC Commissioner David Veleta questioned AES Indiana President Brandi Davis-Handy about referencing the “regulatory compact,” or the obligation utilities have to provide reliable service at a just and reasonable rate set by regulators. AES Indiana maintains that the regulatory compact is a key pillar of its affordability framework, yet it also uses “trackers” that allow for ongoing recoupment of costs in between rate requests. “There’s a tension between invoking the regulatory compact and recovering a growing share of your costs through trackers that bypass rate case review,” Veleta said. Davis-Handy agreed to an ongoing review of these trackers and the impact on customers. But the IURC is relatively powerless to prevent the private equity–backed acquisition, even if the new ownership is even more willing to maximize profit on the backs of its customers. Despite this, AES Indiana contends that its customers will not bear any costs related to the acquisition. Subscribe for analysis that goes beyond the noise. The frustration expressed by many AES Indiana customers also peaked at an April 20 listening session, one of several hosted by regulators across the state this spring as part of their affordability investigation. As WFYI reported, attendees “aired grievances over spikes and inconsistencies in billing, metering irregularities and challenges reaching customer service departments,” with some offering “stacks of utility bills to the commissioners as evidence.” The $84 million overhaul of AES Indiana’s billing system, which was built by Accenture and dubbed the “ACE Project,” was fraught with irregularities when it launched in November 2023. The results of Accenture’s readiness assessment were promising, indicating that the new system was 99 percent ready for launch. Turns out, it wasn’t. In a filing with the IURC, Guidehouse, another professional services consulting firm, found that Accenture’s readiness assessment “did not reflect the true state of system preparedness.” Moreover, the assessment did not include designated testing for out-of-balance billing. Tens of thousands of customers were plunged into billing chaos. One ratepayer reportedly received a bill for $10,521.42 on a home she had already sold. Her previous bill was $25.97. AES Indiana incurred approximately $47 million in losses after launching the new system. The company brazenly tried to recover those losses, based on their own errors, in a rate case the IURC will have to decide in the weeks to come. While settlement born out of that rate case does not include any provisions that would allow AES Indiana to recover said losses, it would result in higher rates for residential customers, and lower rates for industrial customers. “I don’t know how I would afford another increase,” Waterfill told the Prospect. “I can’t afford this the way it’s going right now.” AES Indiana did not respond for comment. Indiana-based consumer advocacy group Citizens Action Coalition (CAC) calls the rate reduction for large energy users a “sweetheart deal” that “fails to adequately address the egregious and prolonged billing system problems.” What’s more, the law firm representing AES Indiana in the rate case, Taft Stettinius & Hollister, contributed $25,000 through its political action committee to one of Braun’s post-election fundraising committees in September 2025. Braun also benefited from $6,000 in AES Indiana donations during his gubernatorial campaign. Three months after the Taft Stettinius & Hollister contribution, Braun appointed Andy Zay, a former state senator and member of the Indiana Senate Utilities Committee, as IURC chair. Zay has been presiding over the rate case; he received $40,000 in donations from several utility industry PACs, including AES Indiana, during his state Senate career. Zay, whose tenure became effective on January 12, 2026, has faced questions over his ability to remain an independent arbiter in his capacity as chair. Zay declined to comment through an IURC spokesperson, citing the ongoing case. DELIVERING ELECTRICITY TO HUNDREDS of homes is inherently a more costly endeavor than supplying bulk power to a select few large load users. As I’ve written for the Prospect, charging all ratepayer classes the same average per kilowatt-hour price is one way to avoid this conundrum. Last year, Gov. Braun signed House Enrolled Act 1007 into law, requiring large load customers to pay 80 percent of the costs for new energy infrastructure needed to power data centers and similar projects. Zay has maintained that data centers will pay their own way, but Hoosiers aren’t buying that. They’re also skeptical of Sabey Data Centers in particular. At the time of writing, Sabey has yet to find a tenant for its proposed data center on the southwest side of Indianapolis. Residents are worried that BlackRock, a Sabey client, could leverage its ownership of AES Indiana to benefit the data center developer. BlackRock declined to comment. Sabey did not comment. The acquisition of AES by the BlackRock-led consortium of investors does need federal approval, and is expected to come before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) later this year or early next year. Indiana state Rep. Cherrish Pryor (D) has called on the IURC to formally petition FERC to deny the proposed sale. In the most recent legislative session, Pryor also introduced an amendment to House Enrolled Act 1002 requiring IURC approval ahead of the sale of any utility, as well as giving municipalities the initial opportunity to buy the utility. All but one Indiana Republican voted down Pryor’s amendment. “I just think it was very convenient for AES and BlackRock to make the decision to move forward with the acquisition a couple of days after we got out of session,” Pryor said in an interview with the Prospect. “It’s very disappointing that my Republican colleagues decided not to try to push back on the sale and to try to hold AES accountable. Pryor, who has “grave concern” about the acquisition, is planning to reintroduce the measure once the Indiana House is back in session. “I’m going to have to be strategic in how I decide to offer that up,” she said, “as an amendment next year, or … as a bill next year.” Waterfill also shared reservations about the bid to buy AES Indiana’s parent company. “We’re already complaining about how AES is treating us,” he said. “We need to be able to control our own electricity.” Pryor believes in the concept of public utility ownership, recalling how AES Indiana’s predecessor was a municipal utility. When she introduced the amendment, “my thought was: Let’s see if we can take it back to the way it was, instead of putting it in the hands of Wall Street,” Pryor said. “Now we’re going to put it in the hands of private equity. What’s going to be next?” But one of Indiana’s loudest voices of opposition to the deal is an unlikely one: the state’s treasurer, conservative Republican Daniel Elliott. “I’m a capitalist,” Elliott told the Prospect in an email. “You should get the rewards for your labors but also be willing to endure the loss if it fails. I do not believe that is the plan here. This consortium of purchasers [is] not here to put Hoosiers first or America first.” I hope that you found this article interesting and thought-provoking. The reason we’re able to publish stories like this — free of programmatic ads and never behind a paywall — is because readers like you step up to support our work. The Prospect doesn't answer to advertisers or billionaire owners. We answer to you and to our commitment to pursuing the truth, wherever that leads us. Independent, reader-supported journalism is critical at a time when the free press is under assault. If you believe this kind of reporting should exist and remain free to read, we hope you'll consider chipping in. Every contribution, however modest, makes a real difference. David DayenExecutive Editor This article appears in Jun 2026 issue. James Baratta is a writing fellow at The American Prospect. He previously worked as a reporter at MandateWire from the Financial Times. His work has appeared in Truthout, Politico, and The Progressive. James is a graduate of Ithaca College and a life-long member of the Alpha Kappa Delta International Sociology Honor Society. He is currently based in New York City. More by James Baratta
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Syensqo - Participation notification by BlackRock Inc.
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2026/06/05/3307199/0/en/Syensqo-Participation-notification-by-BlackRock-Inc.html
Time Published: 2026-06-05T06:45:00Z
Full Content:
June 05, 2026 02:45 ET | Source: Syensqo SA Syensqo SA Regulated Participation notifications by BlackRock Inc. Brussels, Belgium – June 05, 2026 - 8:45 CESTAccording to Belgian transparency legislation (Law of May 2, 2007), BlackRock Inc. (12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL, UK) recently sent Syensqo the following transparency notifications indicating that it crossed the threshold of 3% for direct voting rights. Here is the summary of the moves: The latest notification, dated June 03, 2026 and received on June 04, 2026, contains the following information: Full press release available here. About Syensqo Syensqo is a science company developing groundbreaking solutions that enhance the way we live, work, travel and play. Inspired by the scientific councils which Ernest Solvay initiated in 1911, we bring great minds together to push the limits of science and innovation for the benefit of our customers, with a diverse, global team of more than 13,000 associates in 30 countries. Our solutions contribute to safer, cleaner, and more sustainable products found in homes, food and consumer goods, planes, cars, batteries, smart devices and healthcare applications. Our innovation power enables us to deliver on the ambition of a circular economy and explore breakthrough technologies that advance humanity. Learn more at www.syensqo.com. Contacts Safe harborThis press release may contain forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements describe expectations, plans, strategies, goals, future events or intentions. The achievement of forward-looking statements contained in this press release is subject to risks and uncertainties relating to a number of factors, including general economic factors, interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing market conditions, product competition, the nature of product development, impact of acquisitions and divestitures, restructurings, products withdrawals, regulatory approval processes, all-in scenario of R&I projects and other unusual items. Consequently, actual results or future events may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should our assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Useful links Notification de participation par BlackRock Inc. Bruxelles, Belgique – 05 juin 2026 - 8:45 CEST Conformément à la législation et réglementation en matière de transparence financière (loi du 2 mai 2007), BlackRock Inc. (12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL, UK) a envoyé à Syensqo les notifications de transparence suivantes, indiquant qu’il avait franchi le seuil de 3% pour les droits de vote directs. Voici un résumé des mouvements: La notification la plus récente, datée du 03 Juin 2026 et reçue le 04 Juin 2026, contient l’information suivante: Le communiqué de presse complet est disponible ici. A propos de Syensqo Syensqo est une entreprise fondée sur la science qui développe des solutions novatrices permettant d’améliorer notre façon de vivre, de travailler, de voyager et de nous divertir. Inspirés par les congrès scientifiques initiés par Ernest Solvay en 1911, nous réunissons des talents brillants qui repoussent sans cesse les limites de la science et de l'innovation au profit de nos clients, avec plus de 13 000 employés. Nous développons des solutions qui contribuent à offrir des produits plus sûrs, plus propres et plus durables, que l’on retrouve dans l’habitat, l'alimentation, et les biens de consommation, les avions, les voitures, les batteries, les appareils électroniques et les soins de santé. Notre force d'innovation nous permet de concrétiser l'ambition d'une économie circulaire et d'explorer des technologies révolutionnaires qui feront progresser l'humanité. Plus d’informations sur www.syensqo.com. Contacts Informations prospectivesCe communiqué peut contenir des informations prospectives. Les déclarations prospectives décrivent les attentes, plans, stratégies, objectifs, événements futurs ou intentions. La réalisation des déclarations prospectives contenues dans ce communiqué est sujette à des risques et à des incertitudes en raison d'un certain nombre de facteurs, y compris des facteurs économiques d'ordre général, les fluctuations des taux d'intérêt et des taux de change; l'évolution des conditions de marché, la concurrence des produits, la nature du développement d'un produit, l'impact des acquisitions et des désinvestissements, des restructurations, du retrait de certains produits; du processus d'approbation réglementaire, des scénarii globaux des projets de R&I et d'autres éléments inhabituels. Par conséquent, les résultats réels ou événements futurs peuvent différer sensiblement de ceux exprimés ou implicites dans ces déclarations prospectives. Si de tels risques connus ou inconnus ou des incertitudes se concrétisent, ou si nos hypothèses s'avéraient inexactes, les résultats réels pourraient différer considérablement de ceux anticipés. La société ne s'engage nullement à mettre à jour publiquement ses déclarations prospectives. Liens utiles Attachments Press releaseCommuniqué de presse Regulated Participation notification by BlackRock Inc. Brussels, Belgium – June 03, 2026 - 8:45 CESTAccording to Belgian transparency legislation (Law of May 2,... Press releaseCommuniqué de presse Regulated Participation notification by BlackRock Inc. Brussels, Belgium – May 22, 2026 - 8:45 CESTAccording to Belgian transparency legislation (Law of May 2,...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ezmsg-blackrock 0.13.0
URL: https://pypi.org/project/ezmsg-blackrock/0.13.0/
Time Published: 2026-06-05T05:37:44Z
Full Content:
Please enable JavaScript to proceed.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: ACME Solar raises ₹2,800 crore via QIP, shares hit 52-week high
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/stock-markets/acme-solar-raises-2800-crore-via-qip-shares-hit-52-week-high/article71063942.ece
Time Published: 2026-06-05T04:47:19Z
Full Content:
+ 170.72 + 41.35 + 76.00 -1,165.00 -3,815.00 + 170.72 + 41.35 + 41.35 + 76.00 + 76.00 -1,165.00 ACME Solar Holdings Limited closed a ₹2,800 crore Qualified Institutional Placement on Friday, its first equity raise since listing on Indian exchanges in November 2024, drawing participation from a broad mix of domestic and foreign institutional investors. The Gurugram-based renewable energy company said proceeds will go towards reducing debt and strengthening its balance sheet. The QIP attracted SBI Mutual Fund, Nippon MF, HDFC MF, ICICI Prudential MF and Kotak MF on the domestic side, alongside insurers SBI Life and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance. Global names including, BlackRock, Amundi, Goldman Sachs, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Pictet also participated. Shares of ACME Solar responded positively on the NSE, touching ₹359 — a fresh 52-week high — before trading around ₹352.30, up roughly 1.86 per cent from the previous close of ₹345.85. The stock has returned about 48 per cent year-to-date and nearly 39 per cent over the past year, sharply outpacing the Nifty 500, which is down around 5.7 per cent year-to-date. Market capitalisation stood at approximately ₹21,348 crore at the time of trading. ICICI Securities and IIFL Capital Services acted as book running lead managers for the placement. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas advised the company, while Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and Hogan Lovells counselled the bankers. ACME Solar has an aggregated contracted capacity of 8,070 MW and sells power under long-term fixed-tariff agreements, primarily to central and state government-backed entities. The company handles engineering, procurement, construction and operations in-house. The capital raise comes as India’s renewable energy sector sees sustained institutional interest, with investors betting on the country’s aggressive clean energy expansion targets. For ACME Solar, the deleveraging move is expected to improve financial flexibility as it pursues further capacity additions. Published on June 5, 2026 Copyright© 2026, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments. We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions | Institutional Subscriber
--------------------------------------------------