List of news related to Fedex stock price FDX:

Title: FedEx Positioned As Largest Pure-Play North American LTL Carrier Post-Separation: Analyst
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/fedex-positioned-largest-pure-play-184326052.html
Time Published: 2024-12-20T18:43:26Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. BofA Securities analyst Ken Hoexter reiterated a Buy rating on FedEx Corporation (NYSE:FDX), raising the price forecast to $348 from $325. Yesterday, the company reported adjusted earnings of $4.05 per share, beating the $3.91 consensus estimate. Quarterly revenue came in at $22 billion, missing the $22.11 billion analyst consensus estimate. FedEx now expects approximately flat revenue year-over-year, versus its prior forecast of a low single-digit percentage increase. The analyst mentions that CEO Raj Subramaniam highlighted the potential for significant value creation through improved strategic, operational, and financial execution for FedEx. Hoexter writes that the sum-of-the-parts valuation suggests a potential value of $348 per share. Also Read: EXCLUSIVE: Weight-Loss Market Experts Scoop Up Novo Nordisk Stock After Worst Drop Since 2002 Following Drug Trial Miss This apart, according to the analyst, FedEx Freight will retain its name, collaborate with FedEx, expand its dedicated sales force by about 300, launch a new pricing and invoicing system for Less-than-truckload, and reduce vendor spending through increased automation. The analyst writes the separation will unlock value, positioning the company as the largest pure-play public North American less-than-truckload carrier. Hoexter increased EPS estimates for FY25 and FY26 by 2%, raising them to $19.45 and $23.15, respectively, from $19.15 and $22.80. Overall, the analyst notes that FedEx benefits from cross-border trade growth and demonstrates structural pricing gains as carriers work to improve investment returns. Price Action: FDX shares are trading higher by 0.97% to $278.56 at last check Friday. Photo via Shutterstock. Date Firm Action From To Mar 2022 JP Morgan Maintains Overweight Dec 2021 JP Morgan Maintains Overweight Dec 2021 Deutsche Bank Maintains Buy View More Analyst Ratings for FDX View the Latest Analyst Ratings Up Next: Transform your trading with Benzinga Edge's one-of-a-kind market trade ideas and tools. Click now to access unique insights that can set you ahead in today's competitive market. Get the latest stock analysis from Benzinga? FEDEX (FDX): Free Stock Analysis Report This article FedEx Positioned As Largest Pure-Play North American LTL Carrier Post-Separation: Analyst originally appeared on Benzinga.com © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------

Title: What's Next For FDX Stock?
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2024/12/20/whats-next-for-fdx-stock/
Time Published: 2024-12-20T15:38:41Z
Full Content:
A FedEx cargo flight arrives at Qingdao Jiaodong International Airport in Qingdao, east China's ... [+] Shandong Province, Nov. 11, 2024. TO GO WITH "Interview: FedEx Asia Pacific president upbeat about China's thriving logistics sector" (Photo by Li Ziheng/Xinhua via Getty Images) FedEx stock (NYSE: FDX) is expected to see higher levels after it announced the spin-off of its freight business. While this move was awaited, it bodes well for the stock, unlocking shareholder value. The division is estimated to be worth over $30 billion. [1] Although FedEx’s freight business accounted for only 10% of the company’s total revenues in fiscal 2024, it was far more profitable, with 20% operating margin, versus 2% for Express and 12% for the Ground segment. The spin-off will help FedEx focus on the core delivery business and improve its profitability. While FDX stock may see higher levels in the near term, if you want upside with a smoother ride than an individual stock, consider the High-Quality portfolio, which has outperformed the S&P, and clocked >91% returns since inception. FDX stock has fared well in recent years, with 66% gains since early 2023. This can be attributed to a 2x rise in the company’s trailing P/E ratio from 8x to 16x; partly offset by an 18% fall in adjusted earnings from $20.61 in 2022 to $16.92 now. The earnings decline is a result of lower revenues and margin contraction. FedEx’s revenue declined 6% from $93.5 billion in 2022 to $87.6 billion now, due to lower e-commerce volumes compared to the peak during the pandemic, rising costs pushing customers to cheaper alternatives, and a reduced international shipping demand, among other factors. The company’s adjusted net margin declined by 110 bps over this period due to higher operational costs, including labor and rentals. Notably, the increase in FDX stock over the recent years has been far from consistent, with annual returns being considerably more volatile than the S&P 500. Returns for the stock were 1% in 2021, -32% in 2022, and 49% in 2023. In contrast, the Trefis High Quality Portfolio, with a collection of 30 stocks, is considerably less volatile. And it has outperformed the S&P 500 each year over the same period. Why is that? As a group, HQ Portfolio stocks provided better returns with less risk versus the benchmark index; less of a roller-coaster ride, as evident in HQ Portfolio performance metrics. Given the current uncertain macroeconomic environment around rate cuts and the changes in the White House, could FDX face a similar situation as it did in 2021 and 2022 and underperform the S&P over the next 12 months — or will it see a strong jump? After today’s expected rise following the spin-off development, we think FDX stock will be fairly priced. At levels of around $285, FDX stock trades at 17x trailing adjusted earnings of $16.92 per share, versus the stock’s average P/E ratio of 16x over the last two years. Now, with the freight business spin-off, a rise in valuation multiple for FDX seems justified, and the stock may see higher levels. We currently estimate FedEx’s Valuation to be $285 per share, aligning with its current levels. We will soon update our model to reflect the impact of the spin-off. While FDX stock looks fairly priced, it is helpful to see how FedEx’s Peers fare on metrics that matter. You will find other valuable comparisons for companies across industries at Peer Comparisons. FDX Return Compared With Trefis Reinforced Portfolio Invest with Trefis Market Beating Portfolios See all Trefis Price Estimates One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service. We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines. Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: FedEx Stock Soars As 'Market Cheers' Freight Spin Off
URL: https://www.investors.com/news/fedex-stock-earnings-fedex-freight-spinoff/
Time Published: 2024-12-20T14:33:13Z
Description: FedEx stock has outperformed UPS in 2024.
--------------------------------------------------