List of news related to Alphabet Inc Class A stock price GOOGL:

Title: Berkshire Hathaway Stock’s 2026 Outlook And What It Means For Your Portfolio
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/investor-hub/article/berkshire-hathaway-stock-2026-outlook/
Time Published: 2026-08-05T10:30:00Z
Full Content:
ByCatherine Brock, Contributor. Edited bySophia Acevedo, Associate Editor. Berkshire Hathaway's upcoming earnings report draws significant attention. The company had nearly $400 billion in cash and short-term investments on hand and analysts also want to know more about CEO Greg Abel's evolving strategy. Q1 2026 showcased strong 18% operating earnings growth, benefitting from quarter-over-quarter strength in insurance underwriting, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and interest and dividend income. Investors await insights into Abel's strategy, as his second earnings release follows Q1 moves like increased Alphabet investment. The bull case envisions Abel leveraging a market downturn for strategic acquisitions. Conversely, the bear case points to Berkshire's S&P 500 underperformance due to limited tech exposure and the fading "Buffett premium." Berkshire Hathaway is expected to report earnings on August 8. Analysts are eager for the update for two reasons. The company had nearly $400 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance at the last reporting, and this will be the second earnings release under the leadership of Greg Abel. Abel took the CEO post after Warren Buffett stepped aside at the end of 2025. Find out where Berkshire stood prior to the release and what analysts expect from the company going forward. Berkshire Hathaway reported its first quarter 2026 earnings in May. Highlights included an 18% increase in operating earnings and a 119% increase in net earnings attributable to shareholders. The difference between those two numbers is investment gains and losses, which includes realized and unrealized amounts. The operating earnings benefitted from quarter-over-quarter strength in insurance underwriting, favorable foreign currency exchange rates and interest and dividend income. Learn more about the dividend income here: Berkshire Hathaway dividend stocks. Berkshire Hathaway manages its capital conservatively. The company has low leverage and ample liquidity. Buffett established that discipline, on the argument that investing capital only makes sense at the right price with manageable terms. In his words from a 2023 shareholder letter, “extreme fiscal conservatism is a corporate pledge we make to those who have joined us in ownership of Berkshire.” So far, Abel has continued the practice. He has overseen one acquisition since taking the CEO role, but Berkshire’s cash balance also reached a record high at the end of the first quarter. The table below highlights the company’s strong liquidity position, recent business performance, and reasonable valuation ratios. As of March 31, Berkshire Hathaway had $397 billion in cash and short-term investments on hand. By comparison, the balance at the end of 2023 was $167 billion, which Buffett described at that time as “far in excess of what conventional wisdom deems necessary.” Investors and analysts want to know how Berkshire’s cash balance changed in the second quarter and why. The company recently purchased homebuilder Taylor Morrison for $6.8 billion in cash, but that transaction closed after quarter-end. Potential second-quarter cash uses could include stock purchases in excess of liquidations, BRK share repurchases and capital expenditures at subsidiaries. In the absence of those activities, the cash balance would likely be higher because the company earns substantial dividends and interest from its stock and Treasury bill holdings. With only one reported quarter available, analysts are still guessing about the nuances of Abel’s strategy. In the first quarter, he showed some willingness to make his own moves. He resumed share repurchases and more than doubled the investment in Alphabet (GOOG, GOOGL). But with the amount of cash Abel commands, many investors and analysts expect to see more changes in the second quarter. Large capital allocations could hint at Abel’s priorities and strategic direction. Conservative cash use in the quarter could also be telling: In the past, investors questioned whether Buffett’s cash hoarding was preparation for a potential market crash or liquidity crunch. If Abel has allowed the cash balance to build for another quarter, that question will resurface. In the first quarter, Berkshire Hathaway reported six components of operating earnings: Manufacturing, service and retailing is the largest, producing nearly $3.2 billion in operating earnings. All segments showed quarter-over-quarter gains in the March quarter except Insurance-investment income. The consensus opinion on Berkshire Hathaway is neutral. There are bulls and one bear, plus a few hold ratings. The current average price target is $513.64, representing a range of $463.57 to $585. As of August 3, this represents a 1.1% upside from the current trading price. The expectation for second quarter EPS is $5.04 per Class B share. Notably, the data comes from a limited sample size. TradingView reports eight ratings and four one-year price targets for Berkshire. Other, similarly sized companies might have double or triple the coverage. The relatively small group of analysts partly reflects the challenge of doing valuations and forecasts for a diversified conglomerate. Analysts would ideally need deep expertise across all industries Berkshire participates in, from insurance to manufacturing. That is relatively uncommon, as many analysts have a sharper focus. Berkshire Hathaway is not a business that moves quickly or has big quarterly surprises. So, the bull case for BRK has a longer-term window than the second quarter. It also potentially requires some bad news. A stock market correction or economic downturn that broadly lowers valuations or tightens liquidity would create opportunities for Abel to use Berkshire’s cash at attractive terms. Buffett famously invested billions during the 2008 financial crisis and earned $10 billion in profits as a result. With nearly $400 billion in cash available, Abel has the power to close meaningfully large deals—should they become available. Will the stock market crash this year? Find out in this 2026 stock market outlook. Berkshire Hathaway has underperformed the S&P 500 over the past year, growing about 9.9% compared to the index’s 20.9%. The shortfall relates to the outperformance in the technology sector, which Buffett has historically ignored. Abel did increase Berkshire’s Alphabet position substantially in the first quarter. But faster-growing tech stocks don’t align with Berkshire’s value strategy. Unfortunately, keeping pace with an index is challenging when you don’t own the stocks that are primarily responsible for its growth. If the technology sector continues to dominate for the foreseeable future, investors may lose patience with Berkshire’s slow-and-steady performance. There is also no dividend in play and Abel hasn’t firmly established his reputation. Additionally, Buffett recently announced a plan to dispose of his personal Berkshire stake by 2034. If there is a Buffett premium embedded in the stock price, it will fade in time and push BRK stock lower. Berkshire Hathaway is a large, low-volatility company with a solid long-term growth trajectory. It suits investors seeking a buy-and-hold stock with stable returns, or those wanting a diversified position with limited technology exposure. The recent leadership change does add uncertainty to Berkshire’s outlook. Abel may not continue following the Buffett playbook, which could create upside or downside for the company. Berkshire’s best-case scenario likely involves a dramatic economic or financial market downturn, followed by smart allocation decisions that create value for shareholders over time. Given the strength of the company’s balance sheet, the worst case likely involves underperformance to the S&P 500 alongside lower volatility. In short, Berkshire Hathaway is a defensive, resilient position rather than a strong growth driver. Does Berkshire Hathaway Pay A Stock Dividend? Berkshire Hathaway does not pay a stock dividend or a cash dividend. The company’s leadership team prefers to create value from retained earnings versus shareholder distributions. Why Is Berkshire Hathaway Holding Nearly $400 Billion In Cash? Warren Buffett has long been a disciplined, price-conscious investor, and Greg Abel has continued that tradition. It’s likely the company is waiting for the right opportunities to deploy its cash. Until then, the money is invested in Treasury bills and earning a sizable income. Can You Buy Both Berkshire A And B Stocks? You can buy Class A (BRK.A) and Class B (BRK.B) shares of Berkshire Hathaway. BRK.B has a more accessible price of about $500, versus BRK.A’s trading price over $750,000. How Is Greg Abel Performing As Berkshire Hathaway's CEO? Abel has earned compliments for his willingness to reshape the Berkshire Hathaway stock portfolio and for the acquisition of homebuilder Taylor Morrison. Analysts also noted his deep knowledge of the business on display during the company’s annual shareholder’s meeting in May. Some have questioned the low level of share repurchases in the first quarter, however.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: AST SpaceMobile Sets Launch Date Ahead of Key Q2 Earnings Test
URL: https://www.marketbeat.com/articles/ast-spacemobile-sets-launch-date-ahead-of-key-q2-earnings-test/?utm_source=yahoofinance&amp;utm_medium=yahoofinance
Time Published: 2026-08-03T16:05:00Z
Full Content:
Space-based cellular broadband network provider AST SpaceMobile NASDAQ: ASTS has officially set the launch date for its next cohort of satellites as the company continues to pursue its goal of putting 45 BlueBirds into low Earth orbit (LEO) by early 2027. On Tuesday, July 28, the SpaceX NASDAQ: SPCX rival announced that it is targeting Wednesday, Aug. 5, for liftoff of BlueBirds 11, 12, and 13—the latest three LEO satellites to join its direct-to-device (D2D) constellation. According to AST SpaceMobile, the successful June launch of BlueBirds 8, 9, and 10 will be followed by BlueBirds 11, 12, and 13, while satellites 14 through 16 are already being prepared, and production has advanced through satellite 42. With another satellite launch and its Q2 business update scheduled just days apart, AST SpaceMobile is approaching two important tests of whether its expanding constellation can support commercial service and justify the stock’s volatile valuation. As a group, space stocks have been dragged down over the past month as the fallout from SpaceX’s IPO continues. AST SpaceMobile is no exception, with shares having plummeted more than 30% over the past 30 days. Since hitting its all-time high on May 28, that brings the stock’s total loss to nearly 56%. But the company is doggedly focused on accelerating its launch schedule to meet its 2026 targets. That begins with next Wednesday’s tentatively planned deployment. According to Scott Wisniewski, president of AST SpaceMobile, the orbital launch “combined with expanded manufacturing capacity and the recent successful launch and deployment of BlueBird satellites 8, 9, and 10, position [the company] for beta services later this year with our space-based cellular broadband coverage." That service rollout will be aided by AST SpaceMobile’s numerous strategic partnerships that are already in place, including AT&T NYSE: T, Verizon Communications NYSE: VZ, Vodafone Group NASDAQ: VOD, American Tower NYSE: AMT, Alphabet NASDAQ: GOOGL, and Rakuten OTCMKTS: RKUNY. The company also has agreements with more than 50 mobile network operators and separately serves U.S. government applications and contracts. AST SpaceMobile’s strategic partners include AT&T, Verizon Communications, Vodafone Group, American Tower, Google, Rakuten, Bell Canada, stc Group, and TELUS. The company also has agreements with more than 50 mobile network operators and separately serves U.S. government applications and contracts. Notably, this next group of BlueBird satellites is expected to deliver nearly double the peak download speeds achieved by AST SpaceMobile’s Block 1 BlueBirds, which boast peak D2D download speeds of 98.9 Mbps directly to smartphones. Although not a direct comparison with AST SpaceMobile’s direct-to-smartphone network,, for context, SpaceX’s Starlink satellites report download speeds of 45 Mbps to 280 Mbps for its terminal-based satellite internet service. The week after its next planned launch date, AST SpaceMobile will be hosting its Q2 earnings call at 5 p.m. EST. Investors hopeful that the company can rebound from its galactic Q1 double-miss when the company reported earnings per share of negative 66 cents against analyst expectations of negative 23 cents, and revenue of just $14.74 million compared to forecasts for $39.01 million. Shareholders will also be looking for clarity on a recent private offering that has raised the specter of potential dilution, and whether speculation about the issuance of $1 billion in senior convertible notes was aimed at acquiring or investing in a rocket launch services provider. Those notes will mature on Feb. 1, 2034, unless converted or repurchased at an earlier date. They are also eligible—at AST SpaceMobile’s discretion—for conversion into cash, Class A common stock, or a combination thereof. Despite the recent crash in ASTS’ share price, it has been clawing back. On Thursday, July 30, the stock gained more than 10% and notably sits nearly 64% higher than its 52-week low on Sept. 9, 2025. Shareholders have grown accustomed to ASTS’ inherent unpredictability, though. With a current beta of 2.69, the stock is approaching a level of volatility nearly 3x the broad market. That, in part, is why analysts have been hesitant to upgrade the stock—which carries a consensus Hold rating—despite the average 12-month price target implying nearly 50% upside potential. That elevated volatility has also contributed to outsized attention from bears. Current short interest stands at more than 19% of the float, or a little more than 59 million shares out of the 388 million shares outstanding. In dollar terms, $3.94 billion worth of ASTS is currently being sold short. Revenue is scaling quickly, but profitability and operating cash flow remain under pressure. For investors, the more meaningful test will be whether AST SpaceMobile can convert its expanding satellite network into recurring commercial revenue while managing its substantial capital requirements. Despite those financial risks, institutional activity has remained heavily tilted toward buyers. Over the past 12 months. Over the past 12 months, inflows of nearly $2.4 billion have dwarfed outflows of less than $483 million. Before you consider AST SpaceMobile, you'll want to hear this. MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and AST SpaceMobile wasn't on the list. While AST SpaceMobile currently has a Hold rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys. View The Five Stocks Here Nuclear energy is entering a new growth cycle as rising power demand, expanding data centers, and renewed policy support bring the sector back into focus. After strong gains in recent years, the most impactful phase of nuclear investment may still be ahead. This report highlights seven nuclear energy stocks positioned across the value chain—combining near-term revenue with long-term upside as next-generation technologies scale. Click the link below to unlock the full list. Sign up for MarketBeat All Access to gain access to MarketBeat's full suite of research tools and reports. Featured By 345 N Reid Place, Suite 620, Sioux Falls, SD 57103 contact@marketbeat.com (844) 978-6257 © MarketBeat Media, LLC 2010-2026. All rights reserved. © 2026 Fair market value prices are updated every minute and are provided by Massive. Other market data provided is at least 10-minutes delayed and hosted by Barchart Solutions. Information is provided 'as-is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice, and is delayed. To see all exchange delays and terms of use please see Barchart's disclaimer. My Account -
--------------------------------------------------