List of news related to Kaspi.kz stock price KSPI:

Title: KSPI INVESTOR NOTICE: Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz Investors with Substantial Losses Have Opportunity to Lead Class Action Lawsuit
URL: https://www.investing.com/news/press-releases/kspi-investor-notice-joint-stock-company-kaspikz-investors-with-substantial-losses-have-opportunity-to-lead-class-action-lawsuit-93CH-3786066
Time Published: 2024-12-22T15:44:03Z
Full Content:
San Diego, California--(Newsfile Corp. - December 22, 2024) - The law firm of Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP announces that purchasers or acquirers of Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz (NASDAQ: KSPI) publicly traded securities between January 19, 2024 and September 19, 2024, both dates inclusive (the "Class Period"), have until February 17, 2025 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. Captioned Krivenok v. Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz, No. 24-cv-10926 (C.D. Cal.), the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit charges Kaspi.kz and certain of Kaspi.kz's top executives with violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If you suffered substantial losses and wish to serve as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit, please provide your information here: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/cases-joint-stock-company-kaspi-kz-class-action-lawsuit-kspi.html You can also contact attorneys J.C. Sanchez or Jennifer N. Caringal of Robbins Geller by calling 800/449-4900 or via e-mail at info@rgrdlaw.com. CASE ALLEGATIONS: Kaspi.kz provides payments, marketplace, and fintech solutions for consumers and merchants in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit alleges that defendants throughout the Class Period made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) Kaspi.kz continued doing business with Russian entities, and also providing services to Russian citizens, after Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine, thereby exposing Kaspi.kz to the undisclosed risk of sanctions; (ii) Kaspi.kz engaged in undisclosed related party transactions; and (iii) certain of Kaspi.kz's executives have links to reputed criminals. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit further alleges that on September 19, 2024, Culper Research issued a report entitled "Kaspi.kz (KSPI): The NASDAQ-Listed Fintech Moving Money for Criminals and Kleptocrats." On this news, the price of Kaspi.kz American depositary shares fell nearly 19% over two trading sessions, according to the complaint. THE LEAD PLAINTIFF PROCESS: The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 permits any investor who purchased or acquired Kaspi.kz publicly traded securities during the Class Period to seek appointment as lead plaintiff in the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. A lead plaintiff is generally the movant with the greatest financial interest in the relief sought by the putative class who is also typical and adequate of the putative class. A lead plaintiff acts on behalf of all other class members in directing the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. The lead plaintiff can select a law firm of its choice to litigate the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. An investor's ability to share in any potential future recovery is not dependent upon serving as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. ABOUT ROBBINS GELLER: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP is one of the world's leading law firms representing investors in securities fraud cases. Our Firm has been #1 in the ISS Securities Class Action (WA:ACT) Services rankings for six out of the last ten years for securing the most monetary relief for investors. We recovered $6.6 billion for investors in securities-related class action cases - over $2.2 billion more than any other law firm in the last four years. With 200 lawyers in 10 offices, Robbins Geller is one of the largest plaintiffs' firms in the world and the Firm's attorneys have obtained many of the largest securities class action recoveries in history, including the largest securities class action recovery ever - $7.2 billion - in In re Enron Corp. Sec. Litig. Please visit the following page for more information: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/services-litigation-securities-fraud.html Attorney advertising.Past results do not guarantee future outcomes.Services may be performed by attorneys in any of our offices.Contact:Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLPJ.C. Sanchez, Jennifer N. Caringal655 W. Broadway, Suite 1900, San Diego, CA 92101800-449-4900info@rgrdlaw.comTo view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/234725 San Diego, California--(Newsfile Corp. - December 22, 2024) - The law firm of Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP announces that purchasers or acquirers of Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz (NASDAQ: KSPI) publicly traded securities between January 19, 2024 and September 19, 2024, both dates inclusive (the "Class Period"), have until February 17, 2025 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. Captioned Krivenok v. Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz, No. 24-cv-10926 (C.D. Cal.), the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit charges Kaspi.kz and certain of Kaspi.kz's top executives with violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If you suffered substantial losses and wish to serve as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit, please provide your information here: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/cases-joint-stock-company-kaspi-kz-class-action-lawsuit-kspi.html You can also contact attorneys J.C. Sanchez or Jennifer N. Caringal of Robbins Geller by calling 800/449-4900 or via e-mail at info@rgrdlaw.com. CASE ALLEGATIONS: Kaspi.kz provides payments, marketplace, and fintech solutions for consumers and merchants in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit alleges that defendants throughout the Class Period made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) Kaspi.kz continued doing business with Russian entities, and also providing services to Russian citizens, after Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine, thereby exposing Kaspi.kz to the undisclosed risk of sanctions; (ii) Kaspi.kz engaged in undisclosed related party transactions; and (iii) certain of Kaspi.kz's executives have links to reputed criminals. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit further alleges that on September 19, 2024, Culper Research issued a report entitled "Kaspi.kz (KSPI): The NASDAQ-Listed Fintech Moving Money for Criminals and Kleptocrats." On this news, the price of Kaspi.kz American depositary shares fell nearly 19% over two trading sessions, according to the complaint. THE LEAD PLAINTIFF PROCESS: The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 permits any investor who purchased or acquired Kaspi.kz publicly traded securities during the Class Period to seek appointment as lead plaintiff in the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. A lead plaintiff is generally the movant with the greatest financial interest in the relief sought by the putative class who is also typical and adequate of the putative class. A lead plaintiff acts on behalf of all other class members in directing the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. The lead plaintiff can select a law firm of its choice to litigate the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. An investor's ability to share in any potential future recovery is not dependent upon serving as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. ABOUT ROBBINS GELLER: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP is one of the world's leading law firms representing investors in securities fraud cases. Our Firm has been #1 in the ISS Securities Class Action (WA:ACT) Services rankings for six out of the last ten years for securing the most monetary relief for investors. We recovered $6.6 billion for investors in securities-related class action cases - over $2.2 billion more than any other law firm in the last four years. With 200 lawyers in 10 offices, Robbins Geller is one of the largest plaintiffs' firms in the world and the Firm's attorneys have obtained many of the largest securities class action recoveries in history, including the largest securities class action recovery ever - $7.2 billion - in In re Enron Corp. Sec. Litig. Please visit the following page for more information: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/services-litigation-securities-fraud.html Attorney advertising.Past results do not guarantee future outcomes.Services may be performed by attorneys in any of our offices. Contact:Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLPJ.C. Sanchez, Jennifer N. Caringal655 W. Broadway, Suite 1900, San Diego, CA 92101800-449-4900info@rgrdlaw.com To view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/234725
--------------------------------------------------

Title: KSPI INVESTOR ALERT: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Announces that Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz Investors with Substantial Losses Have Opportunity to Lead the Kaspi.kz Class Action Lawsuit
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2024/12/20/3000339/0/en/KSPI-INVESTOR-ALERT-Robbins-Geller-Rudman-Dowd-LLP-Announces-that-Joint-Stock-Company-Kaspi-kz-Investors-with-Substantial-Losses-Have-Opportunity-to-Lead-the-Kaspi-kz-Class-Action-.html
Time Published: 2024-12-20T00:35:00Z
Full Content:
December 19, 2024 19:35 ET | Source: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP SAN DIEGO, Dec. 19, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP announces that purchasers or acquirers of Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz (NASDAQ: KSPI) publicly traded securities between January 19, 2024 and September 19, 2024, inclusive (the “Class Period”), have until February 17, 2025 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. Captioned Krivenok v. Joint Stock Company Kaspi.kz, No. 24-cv-10926 (C.D. Cal.), the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit charges Kaspi.kz and certain of Kaspi.kz’s top executives with violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If you suffered substantial losses and wish to serve as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit, please provide your information here: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/cases-joint-stock-company-kaspi-kz-class-action-lawsuit-kspi.html You can also contact attorneys J.C. Sanchez or Jennifer N. Caringal of Robbins Geller by calling 800/449-4900 or via e-mail at info@rgrdlaw.com. CASE ALLEGATIONS: Kaspi.kz provides payments, marketplace, and fintech solutions for consumers and merchants in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit alleges that defendants throughout the Class Period made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) Kaspi.kz continued doing business with Russian entities, and also providing services to Russian citizens, after Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, thereby exposing Kaspi.kz to the undisclosed risk of sanctions; (ii) Kaspi.kz engaged in undisclosed related party transactions; and (iii) certain of Kaspi.kz’s executives have links to reputed criminals. The Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit further alleges that on September 19, 2024, Culper Research issued a report entitled “Kaspi.kz (KSPI): The NASDAQ-Listed Fintech Moving Money for Criminals and Kleptocrats.” On this news, the price of Kaspi.kz American depositary shares fell nearly 19% over two trading sessions, according to the complaint. THE LEAD PLAINTIFF PROCESS: The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 permits any investor who purchased or acquired Kaspi.kz publicly traded securities during the Class Period to seek appointment as lead plaintiff in the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. A lead plaintiff is generally the movant with the greatest financial interest in the relief sought by the putative class who is also typical and adequate of the putative class. A lead plaintiff acts on behalf of all other class members in directing the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. The lead plaintiff can select a law firm of its choice to litigate the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. An investor’s ability to share in any potential future recovery is not dependent upon serving as lead plaintiff of the Kaspi.kz class action lawsuit. ABOUT ROBBINS GELLER: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP is one of the world’s leading law firms representing investors in securities fraud cases. Our Firm has been #1 in the ISS Securities Class Action Services rankings for six out of the last ten years for securing the most monetary relief for investors. We recovered $6.6 billion for investors in securities-related class action cases – over $2.2 billion more than any other law firm in the last four years. With 200 lawyers in 10 offices, Robbins Geller is one of the largest plaintiffs’ firms in the world and the Firm’s attorneys have obtained many of the largest securities class action recoveries in history, including the largest securities class action recovery ever – $7.2 billion – in In re Enron Corp. Sec. Litig. Please visit the following page for more information: https://www.rgrdlaw.com/services-litigation-securities-fraud.html Past results do not guarantee future outcomes. Services may be performed by attorneys in any of our offices. Contact: Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP J.C. Sanchez, Jennifer N. Caringal 655 W. Broadway, Suite 1900, San Diego, CA 92101 800-449-4900 info@rgrdlaw.com
--------------------------------------------------