List of news related to Eli Lilly And Co LLY:

Title: Lilly to spotlight growing hematology portfolio at 2026 European Hematology Association (EHA) Annual Meeting
URL: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lilly-to-spotlight-growing-hematology-portfolio-at-2026-european-hematology-association-eha-annual-meeting-302787526.html
Time Published: 2026-06-02T13:30:00Z
Full Content:
Searching for your content... In-Language News Contact Us 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET Jun 02, 2026, 09:30 ET Share this article Positive results from the Phase 3 BRUIN CLL-322 study comparing time-limited pirtobrutinib plus venetoclax and rituximab versus venetoclax and rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL will be highlighted in a late-breaking oral presentation Ajax Therapeutics, which Lilly has agreed to acquire, will present the first clinical data for its first-in-class type II JAK2 inhibitor for patients with myelofibrosis who have been failed by a type I JAK2 inhibitor Kelonia Therapeutics, which Lilly has agreed to acquire, will present additional correlative clinical data for its in vivo CAR-T program in patients with multiple myeloma INDIANAPOLIS, June 2, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) today announced the details of presentations at the European Hematology Association (EHA) Annual Meeting, taking place June 11-14 in Stockholm, Sweden. Data to be highlighted include an oral presentation detailing results from the Phase 3 BRUIN CLL-322 study of Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib), a non-covalent Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, as part of a time-limited regimen for patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Lilly is strengthening its hematology portfolio through the recently announced proposed acquisitions of Ajax Therapeutics, Inc.* and Kelonia Therapeutics, Inc.*, each of which will present data at the meeting. Ajax Therapeutics will present the first clinical data from the Phase 1 AJX-101 study evaluating AJ1-11095, an investigational first-in-class type II JAK2 inhibitor, in patients with myelofibrosis who have been failed by a type I JAK2 inhibitor. Kelonia Therapeutics will present additional correlative data from the Phase 1 inMMyCAR study of an investigational anti-B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) targeted in vivo CAR-T therapy in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Both proposed acquisitions by Lilly are pending transaction closes. "These data at EHA represent a significant moment for Lilly's hematology ambitions," said Jacob Van Naarden, executive vice president and president of Lilly Oncology. "The Phase 3 BRUIN CLL-322 results address an important question for patients with relapsed or refractory CLL, demonstrating that time-limited pirtobrutinib can meaningfully improve outcomes when added to an already effective venetoclax-based regimen. Alongside the first clinical data from Ajax and additional results from Kelonia in support of the recently presented data at ASCO, these results reflect our relentless commitment to pursue meaningful advancements for people living with blood disorders." Presentation Highlights: Lilly: Ajax Therapeutics: Kelonia Therapeutics: A full list of abstract titles and viewing details are listed below: Abstract Title Author Presentation Type/# Session Title Session Date/Time (CEST) Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib; non-covalent BTK inhibitor) Fixed-duration pirtobrutinib plus venetoclax–rituximab versus venetoclax–rituximab for patients with previously treated CLL/SLL: A phase 3, randomized study (BRUIN CLL-322) Matthew Davids Oral #LB5001 Late-breaking oral session Sunday, June 14 9:15 – 10:45 Pirtobrutinib in treatment-naïve patients with CLL/SLL: Pooled results from BRUIN CLL-313 and BRUIN CLL-314 Jennifer Woyach Poster #PS1701 Chronic lymphocytic leukemia and related disorders - Clinical Saturday, June 13 18:45 – 19:45 Patient-reported outcomes of pirtobrutinib vs. bendaR in untreated CLL/SLL: Findings from BRUIN-CLL-313 Phase 3 study Tomasz Wrobel Poster #PF1386 Quality of life, ethics, supportive and palliative care Friday, June 12 18:45 - 19:45 Investigator Initiated A Phase 2 study of fixed-duration pirtobrutinib and obinutuzumab in previously untreated CLL Inhye E. Ann Oral Session #S148 Prognostication and first line therapy in CLL Friday, June 12 18:00 – 18:15 AJ1-11095 (Ajax's investigational first-in-class type II JAK2 inhibitor) Results of AJX-101, a Phase 1 clinical trial of the type II JAK2 inhibitor AJ1-11095, in patients with myelofibrosis who have been failed by a type I JAK2 inhibitor John Mascarehas Oral Session #S218 Myeloproliferative neoplasms - Clinical Saturday, June 13 18:00 – 18:15 KLN-1010 (Kelonia's investigational in vivo CAR-T therapy) Successful in vivo CAR-T generation and minimal residual disease (MRD) clearance with KLN-1010 across diverse baseline T Cell phenotypes in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) Andrew Spencer Oral Session #S185 T cell redirected therapy in multiple myeloma Thursday, June 11 16:45 – 17:00 For more information on Lilly's oncology pipeline click here. *Lilly and Ajax Therapeutics, Inc., and Lilly and Kelonia Therapeutics, Inc., remain separate, independent companies prior to closing. Both transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, with Ajax Therapeutics expected to close in June 2026 and Kelonia Therapeutics expected to close in the second half of 2026. About Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib) Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib) (pronounced jay-pihr-kaa) is a highly selective (300 times more selective for BTK versus 98% of other kinases tested in preclinical studies), non-covalent inhibitor of the enzyme BTK.1 BTK is a validated molecular target found across numerous B-cell leukemias and lymphomas including mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).2,3 Jaypirca is a U.S. FDA-approved oral prescription medicine, 100 mg or 50 mg tablets taken as a once-daily 200 mg dose with or without food until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. INDICATIONS FOR JAYPIRCA (pirtobrutinib)Jaypirca is indicated for the treatment of IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION FOR JAYPIRCA (pirtobrutinib) Infections: Fatal and serious infections (including bacterial, viral, fungal) and opportunistic infections occurred in Jaypirca-treated patients. Across clinical trials, Grade ≥3 infections occurred (25%), most commonly pneumonia (20%); fatal infections (5%), sepsis (6%), and febrile neutropenia (3.8%) occurred. In patients with CLL/SLL, Grade ≥3 infections occurred (32%), with fatal infections occurring in 8%. Opportunistic infections included Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and fungal infection. Consider prophylaxis, including vaccinations and antimicrobial prophylaxis, in patients at increased risk for infection, including opportunistic infections. Monitor for signs and symptoms, evaluate, and treat. Based on severity, reduce dose, temporarily withhold, or permanently discontinue Jaypirca. Hemorrhage: Fatal and serious hemorrhage has occurred with Jaypirca. Across clinical trials, major hemorrhage (Grade ≥3 bleeding or any central nervous system bleeding) occurred (2.6%), including gastrointestinal hemorrhage; fatal hemorrhage occurred (0.3%). Bleeding of any grade, excluding bruising and petechiae, occurred (16%). Major hemorrhage occurred when taking Jaypirca with (2.0%) and without (0.6%) antithrombotic agents. Consider risks/benefits of co-administering antithrombotic agents with Jaypirca. Monitor for signs of bleeding. Based on severity, reduce dose, temporarily withhold, or permanently discontinue Jaypirca. Consider withholding Jaypirca 3-7 days pre- and post-surgery based on surgery type and bleeding risk. Cytopenias: Jaypirca can cause cytopenias, including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia. Across clinical trials, Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias, including decreased neutrophils (27%), decreased platelets (13%), and decreased hemoglobin (11%), developed. Grade 4 decreased neutrophils (15%) and Grade 4 decreased platelets (6%) developed. Monitor complete blood counts regularly. Based on severity, reduce dose, temporarily withhold, or permanently discontinue Jaypirca. Cardiac Arrhythmias: Cardiac arrhythmias occurred in patients taking Jaypirca. Across clinical trials, atrial fibrillation or flutter were reported in 3.4% of Jaypirca treated patients, with Grade 3 or 4 atrial fibrillation or flutter in 1.6%. Other serious cardiac arrhythmias such as supraventricular tachycardia and cardiac arrest occurred (0.4%). Cardiac risk factors such as hypertension or previous arrhythmias may increase risk. Monitor and manage signs and symptoms of arrhythmias (e.g., palpitations, dizziness, syncope, dyspnea). Based on severity, reduce dose, temporarily withhold, or permanently discontinue Jaypirca. Second Primary Malignancies: Across clinical trials, second primary malignancies, including non-skin carcinomas, developed in 9% of Jaypirca-treated patients, most frequently non-melanoma skin cancer (4.4%). Other second primary malignancies included solid tumors (including genitourinary and breast cancers) and melanoma. Advise patients to use sun protection and monitor for development of second primary malignancies. Hepatotoxicity, Including Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI): Hepatotoxicity, including severe, life-threatening, and potentially fatal cases of DILI, has occurred in patients treated with BTK inhibitors, including Jaypirca. Evaluate bilirubin and transaminases at baseline and throughout Jaypirca treatment. For patients who develop abnormal liver tests after Jaypirca, monitor more frequently for liver test abnormalities and clinical signs and symptoms of hepatic toxicity. If DILI is suspected, withhold Jaypirca. If DILI is confirmed, discontinue Jaypirca. Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: Jaypirca can cause fetal harm. Administration of pirtobrutinib to pregnant rats caused embryo-fetal toxicity, including embryo-fetal mortality and malformations at maternal exposures (AUC) approximately 3-times the recommended 200 mg/day dose. Advise pregnant women of fetal risk and females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for one week after last dose. Adverse Reactions (ARs) in Patients Who Received Jaypirca The most common (≥30%) ARs in the pooled safety population of patients with hematologic malignancies (n=704) were decreased neutrophil count (54%), decreased hemoglobin (43%), decreased leukocytes (32%), fatigue (31%), decreased platelets (31%), decreased lymphocyte count (31%), calcium decreased (30%). Mantle Cell Lymphoma Serious ARs occurred in 38% of patients, with pneumonia (14%), COVID-19 (4.7%), musculoskeletal pain (3.9%), hemorrhage (2.3%), pleural effusion (2.3%), and sepsis (2.3%) occurring in ≥2% of patients. Fatal ARs within 28 days of last dose occurred in 7% of patients, most commonly due to infections (4.7%), including COVID-19 (3.1% of all patients). Dose Modifications and Discontinuations Due to ARs: Dose reductions in 4.7%, treatment interruption in 32%, and permanent discontinuation of Jaypirca in 9% of patients. Permanent discontinuation in >1% of patients included pneumonia. Most common ARs (≥15%) and Select Laboratory Abnormalities (≥10%) (all Grades %; Grade 3-4 %): hemoglobin decreased (42; 9), platelet count decreased (39; 14), neutrophil count decreased (36; 16), lymphocyte count decreased (32; 15), creatinine increased (30; 1.6), fatigue (29; 1.6), musculoskeletal pain (27; 3.9), calcium decreased (19; 1.6), diarrhea (19; -), edema (18; 0.8), dyspnea (17; 2.3), AST increased (17; 1.6), pneumonia (16; 14), bruising (16; -), potassium decreased (13; 1.6), sodium decreased (13; -), lipase increased (12; 4.4), ALT increased (11; 1.6), potassium increased (11; 0.8), alkaline phosphatase increased (11; -). Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities in >5% of patients included neutrophils decreased (10), platelets decreased (7), lymphocytes decreased (6). Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma from Single-Arm and Randomized Controlled Clinical Trials Serious ARs occurred in 47-56% of patients across clinical trials. Serious ARs in ≥5% of patients in the single-arm trial were pneumonia (18%), COVID-19 (9%), sepsis (7%), febrile neutropenia (7%). Serious ARs in ≥3% of patients in the randomized controlled trial were pneumonia (21%), COVID-19 (5%), sepsis (3.4%). Fatal ARs within 28-30 days of last Jaypirca dose occurred in 8-11% of patients, most commonly due to infections (7-10%), including sepsis (5%), COVID-19 (2.7-5%), and pneumonia (3.4%). Dose Modifications and Discontinuations Due to ARs: Dose reductions in 3.6-10%, treatment interruption in 42-51%, and permanent discontinuation of Jaypirca in 9-17% of patients. Permanent discontinuation in >1% of patients included second primary malignancy, pneumonia, COVID-19, neutropenia, sepsis, anemia, and cardiac arrhythmias. Most common ARs and Select Laboratory Abnormalities (≥20%) (all Grades %, Grade 3-4 %)--in a randomized controlled trial: neutrophil count decreased (54; 26), hemoglobin decreased (45; 10), platelet count decreased (37; 17), pneumonia (28; 16), ALT increased (25; 1.8), creatinine increased (25; -), calcium decreased (23; 0.9), sodium decreased (22; 0.9), bilirubin increased (21; 0.9), upper respiratory tract infections (21; 0.9); in a single-arm trial: neutrophil count decreased (63; 45), hemoglobin decreased (48; 19), calcium decreased (40; 2.8), fatigue (36; 2.7), bruising (36; -), cough (33; -), musculoskeletal pain (32; 0.9), platelet count decreased (30; 15), sodium decreased (30; -), COVID-19 (28; 7), pneumonia (27; 16), diarrhea (26; -), abdominal pain (25; 2.7), lymphocyte count decreased (23; 8), ALT increased (23; 2.8), AST increased (23; 1.9), creatinine increased (23; -), dyspnea (22; 2.7), hemorrhage (22; 2.7), lipase increased (21; 7), alkaline phosphatase increased (21; -), edema (21; -), nausea (21; -), pyrexia (20; 2.7), headache (20; 0.9). Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities in >5% of patients included neutrophils decreased (23). Drug Interactions Strong CYP3A Inhibitors: Concomitant use increased pirtobrutinib systemic exposure, which may increase risk of Jaypirca ARs. Avoid using strong CYP3A inhibitors with Jaypirca. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce Jaypirca dose according to approved labeling. Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers: Concomitant use decreased pirtobrutinib systemic exposure, which may reduce Jaypirca efficacy. Avoid using Jaypirca with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers. If concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inducers is unavoidable, increase Jaypirca dose according to approved labeling. Sensitive CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A, P-gp, or BCRP Substrates: Use with Jaypirca increased their plasma concentrations, which may increase risk of ARs related to these substrates for drugs sensitive to minimal concentration changes. Follow recommendations for these sensitive substrates in their approved labeling. Use in Specific Populations Pregnancy and Lactation: Due to potential for Jaypirca to cause fetal harm, verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to starting Jaypirca. Presence of pirtobrutinib in human milk is unknown. Advise women to use effective contraception and to not breastfeed while taking Jaypirca and for one week after last dose. Geriatric Use: In the pooled safety population of patients with hematologic malignancies, patients aged ≥65 years experienced higher rates of Grade ≥3 ARs and serious ARs compared to patients <65 years of age. Renal Impairment: Because severe renal impairment increases pirtobrutinib exposure, reduce Jaypirca dose in these patients according to approved labeling. PT HCP ISI MCL_CLL Q42025 Please see Prescribing Information and Patient Information for Jaypirca. About Lilly Lilly is a medicine company turning science into healing to make life better for people around the world. We've been pioneering life-changing discoveries for 150 years, and today our medicines help tens of millions of people across the globe. Harnessing the power of biotechnology, chemistry and genetic medicine, our scientists are urgently advancing new discoveries to solve some of the world's most significant health challenges: redefining diabetes care; treating obesity and curtailing its most devastating long-term effects; advancing the fight against Alzheimer's disease; providing solutions to some of the most debilitating immune system disorders; and transforming the most difficult-to-treat cancers into manageable diseases. With each step toward a healthier world, we're motivated by one thing: making life better for millions more people. That includes delivering innovative clinical trials that reflect the diversity of our world and working to ensure our medicines are accessible and affordable. To learn more, visit Lilly.com and Lilly.com/news, or follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn. P-LLY © Lilly USA, LLC 2026. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Trademarks and Trade NamesAll trademarks or trade names referred to in this press release are the property of the company, or, to the extent trademarks or trade names belonging to other companies are referenced in this press release, the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this press release are referred to without the ® and ™ symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that the company or, to the extent applicable, their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, the company's or their rights thereto. We do not intend the use or display of other companies' trademarks and trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains forward-looking statements (as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib), as a potential treatment for adults with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), and the timeline for future regulatory submissions, presentations, and other milestones relating to Jaypirca and its clinical trials, and reflects Lilly's current beliefs and expectations. However, as with any pharmaceutical product, there are substantial risks and uncertainties in the process of drug research, development, and commercialization. Among other things, there is no guarantee that planned or ongoing studies will be completed as planned, that future study results will be consistent with study results to date, or that Jaypirca will receive additional regulatory approvals. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from Lilly's expectations, see Lilly's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, Lilly undertakes no duty to update forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Endnotes & References Refer to: Kyle Owens; [email protected]; 332-259-3932 (Media) Michael Czapar; [email protected]; 317-617-0983 (Investors) SOURCE Eli Lilly and Company Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) today announced results from the Phase 3 LIBRETTO-432 clinical trial of Retevmo (selpercatinib) as adjuvant therapy ... Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY), the maker of Zepbound (tirzepatide), Mounjaro (tirzepatide), Foundayo (orforglipron) and retatrutide, will present ... Health Care & Hospitals Pharmaceuticals Medical Pharmaceuticals Biotechnology Do not sell or share my personal information:
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Lilly to present new data on Foundayo, Mounjaro and retatrutide at the American Diabetes Association's 86th Scientific Sessions, building toward a new era of choice in diabetes and obesity care
URL: https://pr.eyeondunn.com/article/Lilly-to-present-new-data-on-Foundayo-Mounjaro-and-retatrutide-at-the-American-Diabetes-Associations-86th-Scientific-Sessions-building-toward-a-new-era-of-choice-in-diabetes-and-obesity-care?storyId=6a18756a004597ee6ba13864
Time Published: 2026-05-29T06:52:02Z
Full Content:
PR Newswire INDIANAPOLIS, May 28, 2026 Phase 3 ACHIEVE results showed Foundayo, an oral GLP-1 taken without food or water restrictions, outperformed oral semaglutide and dapagliflozin in type 2 diabetes, reinforcing its potential to redefine oral incretin therapy New analyses of the ATTAIN program highlight Foundayo's profile in patient populations central to the future of cardiometabolic care, including women at every stage of menopause Pivotal Phase 3 results showed retatrutide, a first-in-class triple receptor agonist, delivered powerful results in obesity, type 2 diabetes and other complications INDIANAPOLIS, May 28, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY), the maker of Zepbound (tirzepatide), Mounjaro (tirzepatide), Foundayo (orforglipron) and retatrutide, will present new data across its cardiometabolic portfolio at the American Diabetes Association's 86th Scientific Sessions taking place June 5-8 in New Orleans. Together, these findings position Lilly to lead the next era of cardiometabolic care, with a differentiated suite of approved and investigational medicines built to expand choice for the millions living with obesity, diabetes and related conditions. "No two patients with obesity or diabetes are alike, and their needs evolve over time. That's exactly why choice matters," said Kenneth Custer, Ph.D., executive vice president and president, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health. "The data we're presenting at ADA, including pivotal Phase 3 results for retatrutide and Foundayo, the only oral GLP-1 taken without food or water restrictions, demonstrate our ability to meet patients wherever they are and wherever they're headed." Lilly will also host an investor event on Saturday, June 6, at 6:00 p.m. CDT to highlight the company's cardiometabolic health portfolio and discuss key disclosures from the meeting. The event will be accessible via a live webcast on the "Webcasts & Presentations" section of Lilly's investor website. A replay will be available on the website following the event. Select Lilly Presentations at ADA 2026 Retatrutide symposium | Saturday, June 6, 2026 | 1:30–3:00 p.m. CDT This ADA-sponsored symposium will present Phase 3 results for retatrutide, an investigational once-weekly GIP, GLP-1, and glucagon triple receptor agonist, across two studies: Foundayo (orforglipron) symposium | Monday, June 8, 2026 | 1:30–3:00 p.m. CDT This ADA-sponsored symposium will present Phase 3 results for Foundayo (orforglipron), the only oral GLP-1 taken without food or water restrictions, across three studies in the ACHIEVE type 2 diabetes program: Foundayo (orforglipron) posters Mounjaro (tirzepatide) posters About Zepbound (tirzepatide) injection Zepbound (tirzepatide) is the first and only dual GIP (glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide) and GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1) receptor agonist obesity medication. Zepbound tackles an underlying cause of excess weight. It reduces appetite and how much you eat. Zepbound is indicated for adults with obesity, or some adults who are overweight and also have at least one weight-related medical problem, to lose weight and keep it off. Additionally, Zepbound is FDA-approved to treat adults with moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea and obesity. Zepbound should be used with a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity. About Mounjaro (tirzepatide) injectionMounjaro (tirzepatide) is an injectable medicine for adults and children 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar (glucose). As the first and only FDA-approved GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist, Mounjaro is a single molecule that activates the body's receptors for GIP (glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide) and GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1). It is not known if Mounjaro is safe and effective for use in children under 10 years of age. About Foundayo (orforglipron) Foundayo (orforglipron) is FDA-approved for adults with obesity, or some adults with overweight who also have weight-related medical problems, to reduce excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long term, alongside a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity. Foundayo is a once-daily small molecule (non-peptide) oral glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist that can be taken any time of the day without restrictions on food and water intake.2 Orforglipron was discovered by Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and licensed by Lilly in 2018. In addition to chronic weight management, orforglipron is being studied as a potential treatment for type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep apnea, osteoarthritis knee pain, hypertension, peripheral artery disease and stress urinary incontinence. About retatrutideRetatrutide is an investigational once-weekly triple hormone receptor agonist. Retatrutide is a single molecule that activates the body's receptors for glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and glucagon. Lilly is studying retatrutide in several Phase 3 clinical trials to evaluate its potential efficacy and safety in obesity and overweight with at least one weight-related medical problem, type 2 diabetes, knee osteoarthritis, moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea, chronic low back pain, cardiovascular and renal outcomes, and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. Retatrutide is an investigational molecule that is legally available only to participants in Lilly's clinical trials. Endnotes and References ZEPBOUND INDICATIONS AND SAFETY SUMMARY WITH WARNINGS Zepbound® (ZEHP-bownd) is an injectable prescription medicine used with a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity to help adults with: Zepbound contains tirzepatide and should not be used with other tirzepatide-containing products or any GLP-1 receptor agonist medicines. It is not known if Zepbound is safe and effective for use in children. Warnings - Zepbound may cause tumors in the thyroid, including thyroid cancer. Watch for possible symptoms, such as a lump or swelling in the neck, hoarseness, trouble swallowing, or shortness of breath. If you have any of these symptoms, tell your healthcare provider. KwikPen®: Do not share your KwikPen with other people, even if the pen needle has been changed. You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them. Zepbound may cause serious side effects, including: Severe stomach problems. Stomach problems, sometimes severe, have been reported in people who use Zepbound. Tell your healthcare provider if you have stomach problems that are severe or will not go away. Dehydration leading to kidney problems. Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting may cause a loss of fluids (dehydration), which may cause kidney problems. It is important for you to drink fluids to help reduce your chance of dehydration. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that does not go away. Gallbladder problems. Gallbladder problems have happened in some people who use Zepbound. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of gallbladder problems, which may include pain in your upper stomach (abdomen), fever, yellowing of skin or eyes (jaundice), or clay-colored stools. Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). Stop using Zepbound and call your healthcare provider right away if you have severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away, with or without nausea or vomiting. You may feel the pain from your abdomen to your back. Serious allergic reactions. Stop using Zepbound and get medical help right away if you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including swelling of your face, lips, tongue or throat, problems breathing or swallowing, severe rash or itching, fainting or feeling dizzy, or very rapid heartbeat. Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Your risk for getting low blood sugar may be higher if you use Zepbound with medicines that can cause low blood sugar, such as a sulfonylurea or insulin. Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include dizziness or light-headedness, sweating, confusion or drowsiness, headache, blurred vision, slurred speech, shakiness, fast heartbeat, anxiety, irritability, mood changes, hunger, weakness or feeling jittery. Changes in vision in patients with type 2 diabetes. Tell your healthcare provider if you have changes in vision during treatment with Zepbound. Food or liquid getting into the lungs during surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation). Zepbound may increase the chance of food getting into your lungs during surgery or other procedures. Tell all your healthcare providers that you are taking Zepbound before you are scheduled to have surgery or other procedures. Common side effectsThe most common side effects of Zepbound include nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, constipation, stomach (abdominal) pain, indigestion, injection site reactions, feeling tired, allergic reactions, belching, hair loss, and heartburn. These are not all the possible side effects of Zepbound. Talk to your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or doesn't go away. Tell your doctor if you have any side effects. You can report side effects at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Before using Zepbound Review these questions with your healthcare provider: ❑ Do you have other medical conditions, including problems with your pancreas, or severe problems with your stomach, such as slowed emptying of your stomach (gastroparesis) or problems digesting food?❑ Do you take diabetes medicines, such as insulin or sulfonylureas?❑ Do you have a history of diabetic retinopathy?❑ Are you scheduled to have surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation)?❑ Do you take any other prescription medicines or over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, or herbal supplements?❑ Are you pregnant, plan to become pregnant, breastfeeding, or plan to breastfeed? Zepbound may harm your unborn baby. Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while using Zepbound. Zepbound may pass into your breast milk. You should talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using Zepbound. How to take Zepbound is approved as a 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 12.5 mg, and 15 mg injection. Learn moreZepbound is a prescription medicine. For more information, call 1-800-LillyRx (1-800-545-5979) or go to www.zepbound.lilly.com. This summary provides basic information about Zepbound but does not include all information known about this medicine. Read the information that comes with your prescription each time your prescription is filled. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider. Be sure to talk to your healthcare provider about Zepbound and how to take it. Your healthcare provider is the best person to help you decide if Zepbound is right for you. ZP CON BS 25FEB2026 MOUNJARO INDICATION AND SAFETY SUMMARY WITH WARNINGSMounjaro (mown-JAHR-OH) is an injectable medicine for adults and children 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar (glucose). Warnings - Mounjaro may cause tumors in the thyroid, including thyroid cancer. Watch for possible symptoms, such as a lump or swelling in the neck, hoarseness, trouble swallowing, or shortness of breath. If you have any of these symptoms, tell your healthcare provider. Mounjaro may cause serious side effects, including: Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). Stop using Mounjaro and call your healthcare provider right away if you have severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away, with or without nausea or vomiting. Sometimes you may feel the pain from your abdomen to your back. Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Your risk for getting low blood sugar may be higher if you use Mounjaro with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar, such as a sulfonylurea or insulin. Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include dizziness or light-headedness, sweating, confusion or drowsiness, headache, blurred vision, slurred speech, shakiness, fast heartbeat, anxiety, irritability, or mood changes, hunger, weakness and feeling jittery. Serious allergic reactions. Stop using Mounjaro and get medical help right away if you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including swelling of your face, lips, tongue or throat, problems breathing or swallowing, severe rash or itching, fainting or feeling dizzy, and very rapid heartbeat. Dehydration leading to kidney problems. Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting may cause a loss of fluids (dehydration), which may cause kidney problems. It is important for you to drink fluids to help reduce your chance of dehydration. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that does not go away. Severe stomach problems. Stomach problems, sometimes severe, have been reported in people who use Mounjaro. Tell your healthcare provider if you have stomach problems that are severe or will not go away. Changes in vision. Tell your healthcare provider if you have changes in vision during treatment with Mounjaro. Gallbladder problems. Gallbladder problems have happened in some people who use Mounjaro. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of gallbladder problems, which may include pain in your upper stomach (abdomen), fever, yellowing of skin or eyes (jaundice), and clay-colored stools. Food or liquid getting into the lungs during surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation). Mounjaro may increase the chance of food getting into your lungs during surgery or other procedures. Tell all your healthcare providers that you are taking Mounjaro before you are scheduled to have surgery or other procedures. Common side effects The most common side effects of Mounjaro include nausea, diarrhea, decreased appetite, vomiting, constipation, indigestion, and stomach (abdominal) pain. These are not all the possible side effects of Mounjaro. Talk to your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or doesn't go away. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effects. You can report side effects at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Before using Mounjaro Review these questions with your healthcare provider: ❑ Do you have other medical conditions, including problems with your pancreas, or severe problems with your stomach, such as slowed emptying of your stomach (gastroparesis) or problems digesting food?❑ Do you take other diabetes medicines, such as insulin or sulfonylureas?❑ Do you have a history of diabetic retinopathy?❑ Are you scheduled to have surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation)?❑ Are you pregnant, plan to become pregnant, breastfeeding, or plan to breastfeed? It is not known if Mounjaro will harm your unborn baby. Mounjaro may pass into your breast milk.❑ Do you take any other prescription medicines or over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, or herbal supplements? How to take Learn moreMounjaro is a prescription medicine available as a pre-filled single-dose pen in 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 12.5 mg, or 15 mg per 0.5 mL injection. For more information, call 1-800-LillyRX (800-545-5979) [or go to www.mounjaro.lilly.com]. This summary provides basic information about Mounjaro but does not include all information known about this medicine. Read the information that comes with your prescription each time your prescription is filled. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider. Be sure to talk to your healthcare provider about Mounjaro and how to take it. Your healthcare provider is the best person to help you decide if Mounjaro is right for you. TR CON BS 19DEC2025 Mounjaro® and its delivery device base are registered trademarks owned or licensed by Eli Lilly and Company, its subsidiaries, or affiliates. FOUNDAYO INDICATION AND SAFETY SUMMARY WITH WARNINGSFoundayo (fown-DAY-oh) is a prescription medicine used with a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity to help adults with obesity, or some adults with overweight who also have weight-related medical problems, to lose excess body weight and keep the weight off. Warnings – Foundayo may cause tumors in the thyroid, including thyroid cancer. Watch for possible symptoms, such as a lump or swelling in the neck, hoarseness, trouble swallowing, or shortness of breath. If you have any of these symptoms, tell your healthcare provider. Foundayo may cause serious side effects, including: Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). Stop taking Foundayo and call your healthcare provider right away if you have severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away, with or without nausea or vomiting. Sometimes you may feel the pain from your abdomen to your back. Severe stomach problems. Stomach problems, sometimes severe, have been reported in people who use Foundayo. Tell your healthcare provider if you have stomach problems that are severe or will not go away. Dehydration leading to kidney problems. Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting may cause a loss of fluids (dehydration), which may cause kidney problems. It is important for you to drink fluids to help reduce your chance of dehydration. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that does not go away. Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Your risk for getting low blood sugar may be higher if you use Foundayo with medicines that can cause low blood sugar, such as an insulin or sulfonylurea. Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include dizziness or light-headedness, sweating, confusion or drowsiness, headache, blurred vision, slurred speech, shakiness, fast heartbeat, anxiety, irritability, mood changes, hunger, weakness, or feeling jittery. Serious allergic reactions. Stop using Foundayo and get medical help right away if you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including swelling of your face, lips, tongue or throat, problems breathing or swallowing, severe rash or itching, fainting or feeling dizzy, or very rapid heartbeat. Changes in vision in patients with type 2 diabetes. Tell your healthcare provider if you have changes in vision during treatment with Foundayo. Gallbladder problems. Gallbladder problems have happened in some people who use Foundayo. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of gallbladder problems, which may include pain in your upper stomach (abdomen), fever, yellowing of skin or eyes (jaundice), or clay-colored stools. Food or liquid getting into the lungs during surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation). Foundayo may increase the chance of food getting into your lungs during surgery or other procedures. Tell your healthcare providers that you are taking Foundayo before you are scheduled to have surgery or other procedures. Common side effectsThe most common side effects of Foundayo include nausea, constipation, diarrhea, vomiting, indigestion, stomach (abdominal) pain, headache, swollen belly, feeling tired, belching, heartburn, gas, and hair loss. These are not all the possible side effects of Foundayo. Talk to your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or doesn't go away. Tell your doctor if you have any side effects. You can report side effects at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Before taking Foundayo Review these questions with your healthcare provider: ❑ Do you have other medical conditions, including problems with your pancreas or kidneys, or severe problems with your liver, severe problems with your stomach, such as slowed emptying of your stomach (gastroparesis) or problems digesting food?❑ Do you have a history of diabetic retinopathy?❑ Are you scheduled to have surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation)?❑ Are you pregnant or plan to become pregnant? Foundayo may harm your unborn baby.❑ Are you breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed? Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Foundayo.❑ Do you take any other prescriptions or over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, or herbal supplements? How to take Learn moreFoundayo is a prescription medicine available in 0.8 mg, 2.5 mg, 5.5 mg, 9 mg, 14.5 mg, or 17.2 mg oral tablets. For more information, call 1-800-545-5979 or go to foundayo.lilly.com. TRULICITY INDICATION AND SAFETY SUMMARY WITH WARNINGSTrulicity (Trῡ-li-si-tee) is for adults and children 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar (glucose). Trulicity is also used in adults with type 2 diabetes to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events (problems having to do with the heart and blood vessels) such as death, heart attack, or stroke in people who have heart disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. Warnings: Trulicity may cause tumors in the thyroid, including thyroid cancer. Watch for possible symptoms, such as a lump or swelling in the neck, trouble swallowing, hoarseness, or shortness of breath. If you have any of these symptoms, tell your healthcare provider. Ask your healthcare provider how to recognize the serious side effects below and what to do if you think you have one: Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). Stop using Trulicity and call your healthcare provider right away if you have severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away, with or without nausea or vomiting. Sometimes, you may feel the pain from your abdomen to your back. Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Your risk for getting low blood sugar may be higher if you use TRULICITY with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar, such as a sulfonylurea or insulin. Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include dizziness or light-headedness, confusion or drowsiness, headache, blurred vision, slurred speech, fast heartbeat, sweating, hunger, shakiness, feeling jittery, weakness, anxiety, irritability, or mood changes. Serious allergic reactions. Stop using Trulicity and get medical help right away if you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction which may include swelling of your face, lips, tongue or throat, problems breathing or swallowing, severe rash or itching, fainting, or feeling dizzy, or very rapid heartbeat. Dehydration leading to kidney problems. Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting may cause a loss of fluids (dehydration) which may cause kidney problems. It is important for you to drink fluids to help reduce your chance of dehydration. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that does not go away. Severe stomach problems. Stomach problems, sometimes severe, have been reported in people who use Trulicity. Tell your healthcare provider if you have stomach problems that are severe or will not go away. Changes in vision. Tell your healthcare provider if you have changes in your eyesight (vision) during treatment with Trulicity. Gallbladder problems. Gallbladder problems have happened in some people who take Trulicity. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of gallbladder problems, which may include pain in your upper stomach (abdomen), fever, yellowing of skin or eyes (jaundice), clay-colored stools. Food or liquid getting into the lungs during surgery or other procedures that use anesthesia or deep sleepiness (deep sedation). Trulicity may increase the chance of food getting into your lungs during surgery or other procedures. Tell all your healthcare providers that you are taking Trulicity before you are scheduled to have surgery or other procedures. Common side effectsThe most common side effects of Trulicity include nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain and decreased appetite, indigestion, and fatigue. These are not all the possible side effects of Trulicity. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effects. You can report side effects at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Review these questions with your healthcare provider: Learn moreTrulicity is a prescription medicine available as a pre-filled single-dose pen in 0.75 mg,1.5 mg, 3 mg, or 4.5 mg per 0.5 mL injection. For more information, call 1-800-LillyRx (1-800-545-5979) or go to www.trulicity.lilly.com. This summary provides basic information about Trulicity but does not include all information known about this medicine. Read the information that comes with your prescription each time your prescription is filled. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider. Be sure to talk to your healthcare provider about Trulicity and how to take it. Your healthcare provider is the best person to help you decide if Trulicity is right for you. DG CON HL BS 25MAR2026 About LillyLilly is a medicine company turning science into healing to make life better for people around the world. We've been pioneering life-changing discoveries for 150 years, and today our medicines help tens of millions of people across the globe. Harnessing the power of biotechnology, chemistry and genetic medicine, our scientists are urgently advancing new discoveries to solve some of the world's most significant health challenges: redefining diabetes care; treating obesity and curtailing its most devastating long-term effects; advancing the fight against Alzheimer's disease; providing solutions to some of the most debilitating immune system disorders; and transforming the most difficult-to-treat cancers into manageable diseases. With each step toward a healthier world, we're motivated by one thing: making life better for millions more people. That includes delivering innovative clinical trials that reflect the diversity of our world and working to ensure our medicines are accessible and affordable. To learn more, visit Lilly.com and Lilly.com/news, or follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn. P-LLY Trademarks and Trade NamesAll trademarks or trade names referred to in this press release are the property of the company, or, to the extent trademarks or trade names belonging to other companies are referenced in this press release, the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this press release are referred to without the ® and ™ symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that the company or, to the extent applicable, their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, the company's or their rights thereto. We do not intend the use or display of other companies' trademarks and trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements (as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), including about retatrutide and Foundayo (orforglipron) as potential treatments for adults with obesity or type 2 diabetes and the timeline for future readouts, presentations, and other milestones relating to retatrutide and Foundayo and its clinical trials, and reflects Lilly's current beliefs and expectations. However, as with any pharmaceutical product, there are substantial risks and uncertainties in the process of drug research, development, and commercialization. Among other things, there is no guarantee that planned or ongoing studies will be completed as planned, that future study results will be consistent with study results to date, that retatrutide or Foundayo will prove to be safe and effective treatments for relevant indications, that retatrutide will receive regulatory approval or Foundayo will receive additional regulatory approvals, or that Lilly will execute its strategy as expected. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from Lilly's expectations, see Lilly's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, Lilly undertakes no duty to update forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Refer to: Niki Biro; niki_biro@lilly.com; 317-358-9074 (Media) Michael Czapar; czapar_michael_c@lilly.com; 317-617-0983 (Investors) View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lilly-to-present-new-data-on-foundayo-mounjaro-and-retatrutide-at-the-american-diabetes-associations-86th-scientific-sessions-building-toward-a-new-era-of-choice-in-diabetes-and-obesity-care-302783855.html SOURCE Eli Lilly and Company We are forever grateful to the Save The Hills Alliance, the Texas Tribune Revenue Lab, Margaret Breisch, Lorene Vedder, Dan Paulson, LION Publishers, The Google News Initiative, The Knight Foundation, Cloudflare, and all of our members for their support of local news.
--------------------------------------------------