List of news related to Meta stock price META:

Title: US stock futures tepid ahead of data storm, megacap earnings
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/us-stock-futures-tepid-ahead-101148935.html
Time Published: 2025-04-30T10:11:48Z
Description: First-quarter gross domestic product data, March's reading of the PCE price index - the Federal Reserve's preferred inflation metric - and ADP employment...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Michael Hudson and Yanis Varoufakis with Ann Pettifor on Economic and Political Paradigm Changes
URL: https://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2025/04/michael-hudson-and-yanis-varoufakis-with-ann-pettifor-on-economic-and-political-paradigm-changes.html
Time Published: 2025-04-30T05:46:42Z
Full Content:
Yves here. Get a cup of coffee. This is a meaty discussion of where we are and where we may be heading with our oligarchs’ schemes against the general public getting a ginormous boost from the Trump demolition project. If you don’t have the time to read this talk in full, do at least read Michael Hudson’s opening remarks. The fact that the plutocrats will wind up worse off, even if their relative advantage increases, seems not to have occurred to them. More and more severe contagions? Worse medical care, even at the top? Remember that the surgeon who operated on Ronald Reagan’s gunshot wound (after the hospital’s head surgeon was talked out of it) was the ER doctor who had the most experience in gun wounds….as in treating the riff raff who happened to shoot each other in weekend rows or gang dustups. Similarly, a doctor at one of the top West Coast hospitals told me that the dirty secret of concierge medicine was that those doctors were generally much less good (despite typically superb bedside manner) because their patients were on average much healthier than the population as a whole. That meant they got much less practice with cases that were hard to diagnose and/or treat. Originally published by the David Graeber Institute Nika Dubrovsky: Hi everyone. It’s a real honor to welcome you on behalf of the David Graeber Institute. We’re especially grateful to our speakers — many of whose work aligned closely with David’s thinking and values — for joining us to reflect on how radically our world is changing. It’s in this spirit that we hope to better understand the transformations unfolding around us. Today’s conversation marks the beginning of a new series of public discussions hosted by the David Graeber Institute. With that, I’m happy to hand over to Ann Pettifor, who will be moderating today’s session. Ann Pettifor: Thank you very much, Nika. And can I say how wonderful it is for Michael and Yanis and myself to be gathering here in the name of our very dear friend David Graeber, whom we loved very much and were so sad at his loss. And thank you to Nika in particular for establishing the Institute and for facilitating these exchanges and reminding us all of how important David was to the current public debate. So I’m feeling quite emotional even thinking about him. So anyway, great. So I want to just begin. Everyone here knows Michael Hudson, I’m assuming, and Yanis Varoufakis. They will speak about their work. And what we have in common, I think, is A, David Graeber, but B, an understanding of the international financial system and its impact on Europe, on the United States and on the South. And that’s what is going to be the major theme of this today. And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Thank you very much, Nika. And can I say how wonderful it is for Michael and Yanis and myself to be gathering here in the name of our very dear friend David Graeber, whom we loved very much and were so sad at his loss. And thank you to Nika in particular for establishing the Institute and for facilitating these exchanges and reminding us all of how important David was to the current public debate. So I’m feeling quite emotional even thinking about him. So anyway, great. So I want to just begin. Everyone here knows Michael Hudson, I’m assuming, and Yanis Varoufakis. They will speak about their work. And what we have in common, I think, is A, David Graeber, but B, an understanding of the international financial system and its impact on Europe, on the United States and on the South. And that’s what is going to be the major theme of this today. And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Thank you very much, Nika. And can I say how wonderful it is for Michael and Yanis and myself to be gathering here in the name of our very dear friend David Graeber, whom we loved very much and were so sad at his loss. And thank you to Nika in particular for establishing the Institute and for facilitating these exchanges and reminding us all of how important David was to the current public debate. So I’m feeling quite emotional even thinking about him. So anyway, great. So I want to just begin. Everyone here knows Michael Hudson, I’m assuming, and Yanis Varoufakis. They will speak about their work. And what we have in common, I think, is A, David Graeber, but B, an understanding of the international financial system and its impact on Europe, on the United States and on the South. And that’s what is going to be the major theme of this today. And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So anyway, great. So I want to just begin. Everyone here knows Michael Hudson, I’m assuming, and Yanis Varoufakis. They will speak about their work. And what we have in common, I think, is A, David Graeber, but B, an understanding of the international financial system and its impact on Europe, on the United States and on the South. And that’s what is going to be the major theme of this today. And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino They will speak about their work. And what we have in common, I think, is A, David Graeber, but B, an understanding of the international financial system and its impact on Europe, on the United States and on the South. And that’s what is going to be the major theme of this today. And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I hope to begin with Michael Hudson’s latest paper, which is superb. And Michael, you give us the title because it’s escaped me for the minute. But it really is a wonderful paper, which I think Nika will be distributing more widely. So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So, Michael, you begin our conversation by talking to us about what is actually going on, really. What is the real motives of the Trump administration? And why are we where we are right now? Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Well, there are two things that are key in this. I think that a few years ago, Trump was talking to some economists, and he said, isn’t there some way that America can get rid of the income tax? We want to get rid of taxes, at least on my constituency, the donor class, the 1%. And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And the economists told him, well, you know, America didn’t really have an income tax until 1913. And Trump said, well, how did we get by from the revolution until World War I? And the economists said, well, we had tariff revenues. That was almost the entire source of the American government and the Treasury, along with the sale of land that had been grabbed from the Indians. And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And so Trump said tariffs. That’s wonderful. Trump loves tariffs because they fall mainly on the consumers, not his class. They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino They don’t fall on the class that he wants to untax. So he somehow thought, how do we justify a tariff policy? And if only we can go back to that golden age, of course, we have to shrink government, at least the government social spending. And how do we justify a tariff policy? Well, I think that we’re now talking about him imposing tariffs to threaten other countries with destabilizing their economy. And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And that’s the only thing that America has to offer now. It can’t offer industrialization because it’s deindustrialized. It can’t really offer much financialization because it’s weaponized the dollar. Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Trump wants to weaponize foreign trade as well. And he’ll tell foreign countries, well, of course, we can roll back the tariffs and let’s sit down and negotiate. What can you give back to the United States? And it’s almost as if he’s read Yanis’s articles on the role of information technology is dominating the new economic shape of the world and that of empire builders. They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino They want to gain dominance in information technology and various platforms and in ship making technology with a view to making other countries dependent on paying monopoly rents to U.S. companies, especially those in Silicon Valley, which are Trump’s large campaign contributors. So it’s as if information technology monopoly rents are going to be the new buttress of the American balance of payments. If other countries can be blocked from creating their own independent technology. Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Well, U.S. diplomats can impose sanctions on this. They can try to prevent China from developing IT. They can try to lock Europe and other countries into this. And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And the magnitude of this issue today is as large as that of the 19th century fight against landlords. And it was the fight against landlords that inspired classical economists from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill to Marx and the socialists to define economic rent. And they said, if we’re going to free our economies from the legacy of feudalism, a hereditary aristocratic landlord class, then we’ve got to take away their economic rents, mainly by either taxing rents away or by just socializing the land and making it a public utility. So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So they developed the whole concept of economic rent as the excess of market price over intrinsic cost value. Well, they didn’t succeed in getting rid of the landlord class, but they did define rents in a way that can be applied to monopoly rents. Again, excessive price over income and that the fight against the kind of monopoly rents that Yanis has described as the ideal of the platforms of information technology and all of its associated dynamics are a parallel to the fight today to the 19th century fight against landlords. To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino To free economies from economic rent. And in this case, from economic rent that’s been sponsored and controlled by the United States as a means of replacing the form of dominance that it had over the rest of the world since 1945. Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Fantastic. That does lead us into Yanis’ book and Yanis’ work on technology. Yanis, what would you say to Michael’s analysis of what’s happening right now? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Well, of course, I agree. How can I not? Ever since he wrote the great book, Super Imperialism, and now he’s even alluding to my work on techno-feudalism. Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Look, it’s not technology. It’s got nothing to do with technology. I mean, technology is everything. Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Since the Iron Age, we’ve had technology. And it’s not information technology either. Because look, compare and contrast, for instance, OpenAI, which is, you know, heavy duty information technology, right? But in the end, it was so easy to append it. DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino DeepSeek came out and offered a cheap version of it and essentially damaged that business model spectacularly. So what I think Michael Hudson is very poignantly bringing into the conversation about the global order of things is what I call cloud capital. So you can have an industrial robot, which is very technologically advanced, uses information technology and algorithms and so on to assemble Teslas, right? You can have OpenAI, which produces a standard service in a standard capitalist model. But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino But what lives in here? What lives in here? In Google? In Facebook? In Meta? In X? In all these platforms, this is not just information technology. We get it wrong. It’s a new form of capital. Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Because every form of capital we’ve had up until now, since we created the first tool to the old singing, old dancing industrial robots that assemble Teslas, they’ve been produced means of production. That’s what capital was. With this, we had a mutation of capital. For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino For the first time, we have automated systems that are not produced means of production, but are purely produced means of behavioral modification. So unlike the machines that Henry Ford employed to produce other machines, Model Ts, and create a monopoly capitalist system whereby he’ll use the monopoly profits in order to buy newspapers to influence people and governments and to rip up all the streetcars, trams, in order to replace them with his own cars. Unlike that, you know, Jeff Bezos doesn’t sell anything. I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino I mean, he doesn’t sell anything he makes. His capital, his cloud capital has created a digital fiefdom in which he’s encased producers and consumers charging the equivalent of ground rent, of the feudal ground rent, which are called cloud rent. And today, most of the value in the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ, it comes from cloud rent. It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino It doesn’t come from capitalist profit. It’s exactly what Michael was saying. So when you saw this cabal of Bezos and Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and Tim from Apple and all these nice boys around Trump during his inauguration, I would call it the coronation this time around. And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And what you saw was these cloudalists, the owners of cloud capital, who some of them are losing a lot from the tariffs, like Elon Musk loses a lot from the tariffs. They don’t like the tariffs, but what they see in Trump is the gateway towards the complete political domination of this new form of capital, cloud capital. We all suffered for decades now, the neoliberalism. Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Friedman, Hayek’s return and domination of economics, as both of you and Michael know very well. For me, neoliberalism, I mean, methodologically, from an economic point of view, from a philosophical point of view, was completely bunk and not even interesting. What made it interesting was that it was the ideology which was necessary for the emancipation of financial capital after the end of Bretton Woods. To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino To unshackle the bankers from the shackles of the Bretton Woods system of the war economy, of the New Deal, they needed an ideology. And that was liberalism. Today, there is the unshackling of cloud capital. It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino It was financial capital back then, now it’s cloud capital. And Trump is a vehicle for that. And we have to see, as Michael said, what he does, not just in terms of tariffs, maybe he’s got his own fixation that comes from the 19th century, McKinley and so on and all of that. But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino But there is an interesting plan happening here. Essentially, his team, if you look at Stephen Miran and his famous paper, if you look at what Scott Bessett has been saying, they have a clear plan. Not so much Trump himself. Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Trump is very much influenced by the last person he speaks to, right? But his team. Don’t forget that Nixon changed the world, even though he wasn’t truly familiar with the Nixon shock. He didn’t have the depth of thinking of somebody like Paul Volcker, who was in the team with Henry Kissinger. These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino These people knew what they were doing. They were bringing in what Michael’s book refers to as Super Imperialism, what I much later described in my own Greek way as the global minotaur. The same story, right? It starts with Michael’s idea. These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino These people want, they’re really worried that the world of the dollar, the dollar universe, has become so large relative to the manufacturing sector of the United States, that they want to bring some manufacturing back to the United States in order to rebalance this ratio between the dollar sphere and the actual machine sphere. They are worried about the possibility that the dollar bubble will burst. I’m not saying that they are right to worry about this or not, but they are worried. And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And for them, what is going to give the next impetus, in the same way that in the 70s and 80s it was financial capital that gave the financialized world, whereby essentially the rest of the world was selling stuff to the United States, and also sending the dollars that they were getting paid with back to the United States in order to recycle them through Wall Street. Now it’s the rise of cloud capital. And the merge, the seamless merging of three things. Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Cloud capital, what lives in here, like Google and X and all that. Digital payment systems. Digital payment systems, like stable coins. This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino This goes hand in hand with the project of dividing the dollar without the yuan or the euro taking precedence. Because if you make the Japanese sell some of their 1.2 trillion dollars of savings and buy Tether, a US dollar linked crypto, you have increased the supply of dollars, you’ve brought the value of the dollar down, but that money goes into what? American long term debt. Because Tether, the company, if you give them more dollars for their Tether coins, they will invest in 30 year long US treasuries. So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So this is the plan. But the real driver of extractive power on behalf of the super ruling class of this super imperialist new vision by the Trumpists is cloud capital. And they will have a serious, serious, serious run for their money by the Chinese cloud capital, which is already seamlessly interwoven with Chinese finance and the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino That, I think, is the reason why the Trumpists began the new Cold War against China, because they see the clear and present danger from this merging of cloud capital and finance into what I call cloud finance. Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Wow, that’s fascinating. Thank you, Yanis, for that. Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Hang on a minute. I just want to say to the audience that Nika and I would like it very much if you posed questions and asked and comments about the talk, because we’re going to address those afterwards. And already, Paul Brandon has noted that much of tech today borrows land based metaphors, platforms, domain sites, even digital real estate. Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yet the economic consequences are rarely treated as land like, he says. Anyway, that’s one comment. And there are going to be others. So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So I want to make sure that we address those at the end. So please submit your questions. I just wanted to add one thing to the conversation and to what Michael has said, and that is that, yes, you know, the United States may be deindustrializing, but there is one thing that they now control and that is causing mayhem across the world. And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And that is the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. And the transition away from the US dollar as the world’s as the world’s reserve currency is going to be tumultuous, really. And the impact on the South is going to be devastating. And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And the other thing that really worries me is the rise of bond deals in the United States, the rise of interest, because as Michael and I, when we first met, seems like 100 years ago, was to talk about the levels of global debt. And we know from the Institute of International Finance, that both private and public debt globally is something like three hundred and thirty three percent of global GDP. So that is particularly a burden for countries on the South. But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino But it’s the role of the dollar in the global economy and the fact that it’s weakening right now, the implications of that for debt repayments in dollars, for example. But for the transition away from that without anyone offering an alternative plan. And I keep wanting to talk about the International Clearing Union as proposed by Keynes as an answer to the question of the reserve currency. And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And in particular, to talk about regional clearing unions, in particular for Africa and African Payments Union, which will enable Africa to decouple from the dollar and trade with its partners and allies on the continent. Anyway, I want us to bring the dollar into the discussion as well and very much welcome your comments, Michael, as well as yours, Yanis. Michael Hudson: Well, I think what all three of us have talked about is, of course, the point that Yanis pointed out, that finance is the mother of monopolies. And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And indeed, the financial sector has not only been I’m sorry, the IT sector has not only been sponsored by the financial sector as it’s been financialized, but the entire economy has turned away really from what began, you could say, as profit seeking to rent seeking. And Yanis makes the point that Meta and the others certainly began as capital, but capital makes profits. And what these sectors want is much more than profits. They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino They want economic rent. They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was. And I think Yanis pointed out, most of the financial sector credit is for real estate. And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And what the financial sector wants is not only real estate land rent, but as it loads down real estate with larger and larger loans relative to the value of and the purchase price of the homes and the office building that it’s making, it is into capital gains. And the same thing with the economic rent that’s extracted by Meta and the other IT platforms. The financial sector wants to use this dominance to create economic rents that will have an increasing financial value, which is why Nvidia and Google and Amazon and Apple have all been really the drivers of the U.S. stock market in the last few years. So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So you have a symbiosis between economic rent seeking, finance, and any kind of opportunity that the financial sector and the IT sector and the real estate sector can impose an access price on users that is very much like landlords controlling the rents that have gone up and up and up as home ownership in the United States is plunged by about 10 percentage points since the Obama bailout of the financial sector after 2009. So you’re having a transformation of the economy away from the textbook idea of companies making profits to companies making rent to the entire U.S. economy, thinking, how can we use this rent seeking to achieve U.S. dominance over the rest of the world. Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: And Michael, can I say this? You know, I think that’s absolutely right. But what we have is, if you like, the creation of credit relative to finite assets, assets that are, as you say, declining in value and that are finite. And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I want us all, Yanis and you, Michael, to think about these in relation to the climate as well and to the biosphere. Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Before the climate, I need to answer your question about the dollar. Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Anyway, I just want to say, Michael, are you still with us? You are somewhere there. Yanis, why didn’t you respond to that? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Well, first on the dollar, and then I’ll talk to you about the climate. You won’t like what I have to say about the climate and the state of our world. I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino I don’t like it either, but I have to be honest with you in answering it. Okay, let’s start from the question of the dollar. It is the end game. American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino American hegemony depends on the exorbitant privilege of the United States, still to this day. Now, I think it is a mistake to assume that the dollar is waning as we speak. I don’t believe it is waning. We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino We would like to see it wane. I would like to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar go. I would like to see a multipolar world with different currencies competing with, as you said, along the lines of the ideas of Keynes in 1944 and so on, but I don’t see it yet. It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino It may well happen. This is an opportunity for it to happen, but let’s not take it for granted. Let’s not forget that the Nixon shock was utterly successful in doing two things at once: Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Reducing the value of the dollar, increasing bonds, bond yields at the same time, and seriously enhancing the dominance of the U.S. dollar. The dollar was devalued and enhanced simultaneously. That is what the Trump administration wants to do, and we should not take it for granted that they shall fail. I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino I want to see them fail, but let’s not take it for granted. What it will depend on is on whether they succeed in getting holders of dollars to sell them, but at the same time not to purchase other currencies that will then essentially become competitors to the reserve currency status of the dollar. Now, you mentioned the International Clearing Union, the brilliant idea which was rejected so scathingly by Harry Dexter White in 1944. Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Now, look, I don’t believe that the African Union can do that, simply because the African Union, as long as it continues to rely on to run a massive trade surplus with China, with other countries, such an ICU cannot work. But where the ICU idea could work is if China decides to internationalize the yuan and to turn the BRICS area, not into a common currency area, but in a Bretton Woods-like system with the yuan playing the dollar in the BRICS area that the dollar played in the Bretton Woods system. In other words, the United States was the surplus country in the Bretton Woods system, and it was recycling its surpluses in the form of direct injections either through aid or through loans to the rest of the Bretton Woods area. China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino China can do that. It can do that within the BRICS area. And that is very different from the BRICS pay, which is now simply an alternative to SWIFT. But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino But to do that, they will have to decide to take on the exorbitant power of the dollar. And at the moment, and I think the Trump people know that, I don’t know whether Trump knows it, but the Trump people surrounding him know that, the greatest ally of the exorbitant privilege of the United States dollar is China, is the Beijing government, because they have not decided yet. They may decide it soon, but they have not decided yet to compete for reserve currency status with the United States. If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino If you are a Chinese capitalist in Shenzhen and you’re exporting aluminum to the United States, you don’t want to see the exorbitant privilege of the dollar wane, because the dollar is a kind of IOU that you’re receiving from California. And then you take this money and you take it back to New York and you buy real estate in Miami. Ann Pettifor: No, no, no, no, you don’t. You buy financial assets. You don’t buy real estate. You buy financial assets and then buy real estate. Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Increasingly, they buy real estate, because they don’t trust the financial assets as they used to. But anyway, the point is this. The point is that the Chinese Communist Party has not decided yet to pull the plug, to go for a Bretton Woods ICU version of the Bretton Woods within BRICS. Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Some of us are working towards convincing them to do it, because that will be of great benefit to the global South. Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: But, Yanis, does that mean you are proposing that what should happen is an alternative hegemonic currency? Why, I mean, why should we? Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Not at all, Anne. I mean, the reason why you and I love the Keynes idea of the ICU is that it is exactly the opposite of a hegemonic currency. The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino The whole point of the ICU is no hegemonic currency. You have the banker. You have a common accounting unit. And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And you have simultaneously, you put levies symmetrically on surpluses and deficits in order not to have a hegemon. So this is what I’m proposing that the BRICS should aim at. Not another hegemonic based on China system, but a non-hegemonic multipolar world without the United States and Europe in it. Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Because the United States doesn’t want to, and Europe is too stupid to understand that it needs it. Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Well, in order to achieve this independence, you have to deal with the problem of the enormous dollar-denominated debt that the Global South countries and other countries have accumulated since World War II. Well, Trump has just given a wonderful excuse for breaking away from this dollar debt, because other countries have said, with the tariffs that Trump has imposed, it makes it impossible for Global South countries, which are the most highly taxed under Trump’s threat, to obtain the dollars to pay their dollar debt. So Trump has turned this dollar debt into odious debt, debt that can’t be paid. And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And indeed, that buildup of debt was the whole objective of the U.S. alternative to the Keynesian proposals for how the post-war 1944-1945 world was going to work. And the key, in addition to suspending or moratorium on the Global South’s dollar debt, it cannot invest in its own economic infrastructure and advancement and at the same time pay the dollar debt. That’s what makes it odious. Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Well, the key to what Keynes proposed as an alternative to Bretton Woods was the fact, the intergovernmental character of this debt, that we’re not talking about a BRICS currency as such, and you really can’t have a BRICS currency without a political union of everybody deciding who gets what from this. But what you can get is an intergovernmental currency, like the Bancor that Keynes said, that would govern the debts between the surplus countries. In this case, it will probably be China and a few other oil-producing countries and the deficit countries. And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And what Keynes said was, if you have one country achieving dominance and chronic surplus under the international trade payments and investment relations, then at a certain point the surplus that’s accumulated will have been deemed exploitative. We’ll write that down and the countries that have become dependent, the Global South countries, will have their debts erased. Well, Keynes had in mind the US dollar and England at that time, obviously. He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino He thought that the United States aimed at creating a post-war order in 1945 that would take control of the British Empire, ending British imperial preference, making a British loan that prevented Britain from devaluing overvalued sterling until about 1949. All of this structuring of an international market was an artificially created, politically-run, American-dominated market. And Keynes’ plan for the Bancor would be to wipe out the enormous dollar debt that had been accumulated at the expense of other countries, liberating other countries from this dependency relation that the combination of the IMF and its awful, destructive austerity plans, anti-labor plans that it’s imposed, and the World Bank that has blocked other countries from creating their own domestic food independence from the United States, to force them into plantation exports and to oppose land reform and oppose any investment in domestic food independence so that the United States could its food exports, the buttress of its trade balance like oil, and giving it the ability to turn off the food spigot and starve other countries as it tried to starve China right after Mao’s revolution. These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino These are the preconditions for how you break free of the dollar area, and de-dollarization has to impose a debt write-down of the dollar debt, I think. Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: So we agree on most of this then, but what I’m puzzled about, Yanis, was your comment about the dollar not weakening, because there are clear signs already of money leaving, of dollars leaving the United States, mainly because of the lack of confidence in the way in which tariff policy is being mismanaged. So, I mean, I see it happening and I see a general disillusion and fear of the dollar, the fear of the United States, because it’s destabilizing. No? Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: No, I don’t think so. I don’t think we should confuse the drop in the exchange value, the exchange rate of the dollar, with a weakening of the dollar as the reserve currency. This is exactly what happened after 1971. You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino You had a massive devaluation of the dollar, and yet its hegemonic position was enhanced. It may very well happen again, may very well happen again. I see no evidence. Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Look, if you want to see an example of a loss of, a tiny loss of hegemonic power by the dollar, I think a better example is the war in Ukraine. The moment the Europeans and the Americans confiscated hundreds of billions of Russian central bank monies, dollars, I’m not judging it, whether they should have done it or not. Matter of factly, I’m saying the moment they did that, there was an immediate increase in the amount of money that especially Saudis and Emiratis and Indonesian capitalists and landlords from Malaysia and so on started funneling through the Chinese digital currency system, because they were scared of confiscation, right? Not tariffs. Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Tariffs they don’t care about. Confiscation they care about. So if anything, if there was a blow at the hegemonic position of the dollar, it was a Ukraine war. It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino It was not what Trump is doing. Now, of course, we’ll have to wait. Look, Ann, if you put it in terms of the timeline of the 1971 Nixon shock, which started on the 15th of August 1971, as we know very well, today we’re somewhere around October 1971. The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino The dust has not settled. It is very possible, especially when the tax cuts come in, because he, you know, remember Trump has two weapons or two bullet cartridges in his shotgun. One was a tariff. The other one was those obscene tax cuts for the ultra rich. I bet you when that happened, there was going to be an influx of capital into the United States. So don’t count our chickens or the dollar’s chickens yet. Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Right. Okay. I take that point. Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: I haven’t asked you a question about climate. Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettiffor: But tell me what you think, Yannis, is Europe’s role in all of this? You know, what is Europe? Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: We’re the stupid continent. We’re the stupid continent. Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Look at our leaders. They’re running around like decapitated chickens. They are fighting with one another. There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino There is no plan. Nobody’s having the conversation you should be having in Europe. One conversation is the conversation of how do you boost investment to boost aggregate demand so you don’t need to rely on exporting deflationary forces to the United States by means of the 240 billion of net exports every year to the United States. Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Nobody’s having this conversation. They are arguing with one another as to whether they will convince Trump to take things back through cajoling him, kissing his ass, as he said, in very scientific terms, or begging him. This is the difference between France this morning. Macron and Merz had an almighty fight. Macron was saying, oh, we have to tax services, digital services. I’m all in favor of cloud taxes, right? But if they think they will defeat Trump’s tariffs through that, they are more idiotic than I thought they were. And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And then Merz says, oh, no, no, we need a trade deal. If we need to eat lots of chlorinated chicken, let’s do it because that’s the way to get on the right side. So Europe, 30 years ago, I was talking about the need to have 5% of aggregate investment, an aggregate investment vehicle in the euro area, which was being put together back then. And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And that was rejected. Then when I was in the finance minister’s council in Europe, I proposed 5%, and I proposed exactly how it should be done, through a net issue of EIB bonds, European Investment Bank bonds, with the support of the European Central Bank. It was rejected by Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Mario Draghi comes last year out and says, we need 5% of investment. These people, when they leave office, they have the right ideas, only because they know that they cannot be implemented. Now, we’re not having this conversation. Instead, the only conversation they’re having is what? Because for 15 years, the combination of austerity for the many, and money printing for the very, very few, has produced an investment strike. There’s been no investment, zero net investment in Germany for 15 years. So the result is Volkswagen cars cannot be sold. Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Nobody wants to buy them. So what they’re doing is they’re retiring production lines of the Volkswagen, and they’re making us buy tanks that Rheinmetall would be making on those production lines. Tanks we neither need nor want. And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And as if the European Union can emulate the American military industrial complex, as if we can start a new war every year or two, which we cannot do. So Europe is a stupid continent. I’m saying this with a lot of pain as a committed Europeanist, and very patriotic about Greece, about Europe, but we are going to go down in history as the most idiotic cabal of politicians and economists in the history of the world. Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Why? Because we’re not like Africa. We don’t lack resources. We don’t lack wealth. We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino We don’t lack technology. We don’t lack the great universities. What we lack is a political system that can organize the escape out of a brown paper bag. Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: I think we get your point, Yanis, about Europe. But Michael, tell me, what role for China now? How is China going to handle this? I’m conscious we’ve not got a lot of time to talk about this, but Michael, what are your views on China’s role in all this? Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Well, I’m surprised at how passive China has been all of this. And Yanis has said, what is their plan? Well, finally, they’ve taken the gloves off and said, well, now that the United States has offshored its industry and its dependency on China for refining vital raw materials, not only the rare earths, but even aluminum and other products, China has the ability to turn Trump’s tariff policy and U.S. economic policy against itself by isolating itself. Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Trump has set out with the American sanctions to isolate China, Russia, and the rest of the world, but he’s overplayed his hand so much that he’s left the United States isolated. And that creates a free reign for other countries, essentially the global majority countries, to create an alternative to the dollar. Well, I think one of the things that Trump has tried to do with the tariffs and demanding givebacks from other countries, he wants to make the European idiocy, for instance, that Yanis has talked about, an official aim of American tariff policy by saying, well, one of your givebacks is you have to create a political system that is dominated not only by pro-U.S. politicians, but dominated by a right-wing, anti-labor, pro-Rentier, anti-government free market policy that defines a free market as something that the United States has created and shaped in its own self-interest. So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of a market are they going to create? To me, the essence of this alternative market would be to do what the 19th century classical economists wanted to do. You want to free that market from exploitation, especially exploitation in the form of economic rent, not only land rent, but monopoly rent, and especially financial rent. China has made money creation and banking a public utility. That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino That is its great advantage, and that’s what’s enabled it to avoid the financialization of industry that has been responsible for de-industrializing the United States and the European economies. So that’s a precondition. But China hasn’t followed through with the logic of 19th century free market economies to want to free its own economy from land rent and from the mortgage debt that’s developed into its own economy and sort of paralyzed the financial sector for the last few years. And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And one of the problems is China hasn’t really federalized its economy. In the late 1970s, when Milton Friedman came there with a hundred flowers bloom, China said, okay, we’re going to let a hundred flowers bloom. And it left local localities, towns and entire cities to depend on their own revenue to develop. Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Well, how did they achieve this revenue from an economy that didn’t have a tax base? They began selling off the land or leasing the land to real estate developers. And that leasing led to a kind of symbiosis of finance with the real estate sector, finance, insurance and real estate, the fire sector. China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino China has let this sector develop. And if it’s going to create a model that’s an alternative to the U.S. financialization model, it has to go back to looking at tackling the problem of economic rent. And that entails freeing its localities from dependence on privatizing and financializing its real estate as a means of financing their fiscal policy. I’ve not had very much success in China. And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I’m trying to remind them that when they claim to be Marxist, they have to follow volume two and three of capital and theories of surplus value also, and realize that it’s all about economic rent seeking and land rent, especially as part of the socialist reform. So I think they’re operating partially in the dark as to what to do. And they really don’t know, haven’t set aside as America is threatening China and Iran with its military attack on Ukraine and on Russia. This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino This is the wildcard, as you pointed out. Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: So can we just for a moment address the whole question of the biosphere? And to come back to your point about cloud capital, which I think is very powerful, Yanis, how far can these guys go in extracting rent without also just extracting the finite assets that make up the biosphere? And there’s got to be a limit to the extent to, because ultimately that rent must depend on something real. It cannot only depend on synthetic assets. It has to also depend on real assets. And how far can they go before they blow up the ecosystem? My goodness. Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: And look, back in 2015, 2016, before Trump was elected first time around, I was particularly concerned that maybe humanity has gone past the point of no return in terms of climate catastrophe. That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino That was in 2016. After that, we had two terms of, well, we’re in the second term of Trump and one term of Biden who waxed lyrical about the green transition, but essentially did nothing towards that except some tax credits for some green stuff along the massive subsidization of the fossil fuel industry. So if I was worried back then, you know, 10 years ago about us going past the point of no return, imagine how terrified I am now. And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I see no evidence that we are doing anything to stop that from becoming our reality. Now, look, it’s a tale of two cities, cloud capital. Compare and contrast OpenAI with DeepSeek. OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino OpenAI, which is based on the pure rent extraction model that, you know, Michael was talking about as well, cloud to rent extraction. They are in the business of throwing as much computing power into the AI machine as possible, hoping that data will come in on one side and the output will be intelligence. That will never happen. But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino But anyway, this is an extremely energy intensive process because it is accumulative. DeepSeek, on the other hand, they use smart software engineering in order to produce even better results from their AI using a tiny, tiny proportion of the energy. Okay, but what is the main, why can DeepSeek do it? Because they’re not extracting any rents out of it. They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino They have provided us with that service for free as a social gift, right? So ownership and rent seeking is at the heart of the connection between cloud capital and the impact on the environment. Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: That’s really interesting. I don’t know if you know, we had a catastrophe at Heathrow Airport recently when the local energy substation collapsed. Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Apparently, the energy generated for the whole of Heathrow is a third of what is needed for a similar substation, not far away, just for generating data processing. So it is burning up huge quantities of energy. So, and making that link, of course, with economic rent is right. Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Now, Yannis, there is a question for you that I don’t fully understand and I hope you can answer. Do you know the copyleft and the free software movement are behind you? Will you work with the EFF, I’m not sure who they are, to start a mass movement to change the property rights of the cloud infrastructure? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, I’m always glad to have people behind or with me or alongside or just in front of me, even better so I can follow them. Look, it is true that some of us have been working very hard to free up software, to socialise cloud capital, to start imagining how beautiful cloud capital would be if it is socially owned. Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Let me give you a simple example. Why do we need Airbnb, Uber, Deliveroo, and even our banks, private banks, payment apps? Imagine if you’re a municipality, and it’s really that easy to get coders to code their own municipal, original, publicly owned cloud capital. So that I’m here and I want to go to the airport and instead of getting Uber that will always try to maximise the cloud rents of the owners of Uber that will end up in the Cayman Islands, it belongs to the municipality. And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I can say, look, my name is Yanis and I want to go to the airport. What do you recommend? And one recommendation is a local taxi that retains all the rents from taking me to the airport. Or the attendant says, don’t be so stupid. There is a metro bus that is much faster or it costs almost nothing. Take that. Uber will never do that. What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino What about Airbnb? Why can’t our municipality decide on the democratic principles what percentage of our housing we want to rent out for how many days a year instead of effectively pushing everything into the tourist section and where Airbnb is lapped? Decide this democratically and run a socially responsible Airbnb. What about food delivery? What about payments? We can have the very same principles that govern the digital currency of the Central Bank of China. Imagine if we had payment systems which allowed us even to store our money and to receive the overnight interest rate of the Central Bank for zero fees. This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino This is a beautiful world powered by cloud capital as long as it is socially owned. Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Right. So you are in agreement and you do like what they’re doing, which is fantastic. While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino While we’re at this stage of the conversation, can I just bring in our dear friend David Graeber and the role of the state in all of this? As you know, David was essentially an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period? And can I say why we’ve only got a few minutes left, but I’m deeply pessimistic about this transition. When we’ve had these tensions in the past, they haven’t led to peace and prosperity, but to the reverse. So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So I worry about that and then I worry about the role. What do we expect as socialists, as people who want socially owned institutions? What do we think about the role of the state? Michael. Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Can you rephrase the question? Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: In the context of David Graeber’s ideas about how… Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Well, David and I spent… The whole focus of what we were doing was a debt cancellation and the fact that the world is so heavily burdened by debt service, that their debt service has crowded out the money, the income needed for new investment, whether it’s infrastructure or private investment, and it’s crowded out personal consumption. And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And without a writing down of debt, you cannot go forward. Each recovery since World War II has been on a higher and higher debt level. And the debt is so high that it’s stifling economies. Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Well, what we’ve been talking about earlier today in this show is here we have a perfect example of how to at least free the global South countries and many global majority countries from their debt overhead because of Trump’s tariff policy as announced so far this may enlist countries agree to a give back in the form of abolishing democratic policy and putting forth a right-wing anti-government policy of free markets defined as those controlled by the financial sector and the monopolies that the financial sector controls in order to have a stranglehold over economies. Debt has become a stranglehold and the debt in conjunction with being run up to finance economic rent is a two-pronged stranglehold. And this is what classical economics is all about, is a logical extension of land rent by what Europe and the West inherited from feudalism, not only a landed aristocracy, but the usury oriented banks not making, creating credit for industrialization and industrial investment, but for real estate monopolies to control. And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And the very idea of monopoly rent, so land rent, monopoly rent and financial rent were the aims of classical free market economics. And I think David and I focused upon the role of debt cancellations is the key of this because it’s finance that has backed this rent seeking all the way from real estate rent to monopoly rent, to the privileges of the financial banking system and taking control of government. That’s the role of central banks to take control of government policy. Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Sure. And what’s your view, Yanis, about the role of the states in this transition and what’s coming now? Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: I think that Michael will appreciate when I start my answer by mentioning that when I resigned to the finance ministry, my major clash with the prime minister who had just accepted the perpetration of our debt bondage and that thus led me to resign, he turned around and said to one of his colleagues, explaining why our ways had to part, Yanis, has this fixation with debt cancellation for which I said, yes, in the same way that if I were a prisoner of war, I would have a fixation with escape. So I think Michael understands that, right? Now, regarding the question about the state and the role of the state. Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Look, we live in a world, in a socioeconomic mode of production, distribution, exchange, and so on, which is founded at the ideological level on a major motivated error. And it is that we produce value privately. That is the error. The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino The ideology that we produce value privately and then the state comes and collectivizes it through the tax system. When in reality, we produce value collectively and then those with the power, either the market power or the state bureaucratic power come in and privatize it, right? So if we’re going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively. Yeah. Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: I mean, that’s my view. And this is why I look always to Roosevelt for all his weaknesses, and they were many. He was able to defy Wall Street and he was able to make Wall Street pay the costs of the depression, if you like, by removing the power over the dollar and effectively over interest rates from Wall Street and taking that back to the treasury. So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino So for me, he is the model. I mean, he was the one courageous leader that was happy for Wall Street to hate him. And he welcomed his hatred as is known for one of his great speeches. Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Right. Well, I think we’ve tackled the big subjects here of the day. Have we said enough about the climate? I worry that for many low-income countries being flooded and suffering from droughts when they are often, you know, producers of commodities and need to be able to produce those commodities to deal with, to actually survive, that actually we haven’t yet, the low-income countries haven’t yet come into focus in this crisis. Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Entirely, the West is entirely the focus of these discussions around the Trump shock. And I want us to be thinking about both the climate impact, but also the economic impact of what’s going on. And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And I know that’s something that Nika is also particularly concerned about in low-income countries. Now, of course, it’s largely debt, but it’s largely also toxic emissions from the North, poisoning, if you like, the planet and making it so much harder for people in low-income countries to survive. We’re pretty much at the end of this conversation. I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino I’d just like to say what an honour it has been to discuss with my comrades, Yanis and Michael, and to thank Nika once again for organising this and to all of those listening. I hope you enjoyed that conversation as much as I did. Thank you. Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Yanis Varoufakis: Goodbye. Thank you, Ann, for organising this. And thank you, Nika, for running the Institute. And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino And thank you to Michael for sharing your platform. Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Michael Hudson: Well, we’ve tried to redefine the whole terms of the debate. Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Ann Pettifor: Absolutely. Goodbye. Transcription: Juan Sanguino Thanks, brilliant post! I love a good modern day take on rentierism. My (old school Scottish National Party) Director of Studies at my Cambridge college spent 55 minutes of a supervision teaching us the university mandated nonsense. Then he’d tell us “this is NOT for the economics exam. It’s how things really work”. He’d then take 5 minutes to explain how Smith hated the rentiers, how Henry George made the same case but from the progressive end of the political spectrum etc. Unfortunately it took me years to fully accept all that. But I got there in the end and also got into MMT and its associated stuff. “They want to turn what began as an industrial sector in information technology into the kind of rent seeking that land was.” Cory Doctorow, the early years, talked about this and about the great weakness of Intellectual Property which is that the concept seeks to own an idea, a thought. And so while Louis B. Mayer could boast that the movie business allows you to sell something while still owning it–charge a rent–the move to digital meant that movies were no longer two mile long strips of celluloid but a collection of pixels that could fit on a thumb drive. The “ownership” side of the great scheme was suddenly in peril. So that’s a new wrinkle to our new age where physical things are replaced by digital things. And just as the movie industry is now going down the tubes the useless eaters around Trump and the man himself are fighting a rear guard action against countries that actually make things while we, as Larry Summers said, give them pieces of paper. Money too has become an idea of power without even a physical token. Trump just got rid of the penny. The rest to follow? Haven’t yet the time to read the entire post, but if we are talking paradigm shifts, I could offer a couple of obvious ones; Millions and billions of people working COLLECTIVELY, then having to save individually is one of the greatest scams in history. As people are linear, goal oriented creatures in this cyclical, circular, reciprocal, feedback generated reality, we see money as signal to save and store, while markets need it to circulate. Consequently Econ 101 considers it both medium of exchange and store of value. These are not synonymous. In your body blood is the medium, fat is the store. Mix them up and see how long you live. Roads are a medium, parking lots are a store. If we treated roads like we treat money, everything would be paved over, but we would still be fighting over the lots. As a medium, you own money like you own the section of road you are on, or the air and water flowing through your body. Given it is a social contract, not a commodity, storing the asset side of the ledger requires a debt on the other side. So much of our economic activity is primarily designed around generating debt in order to store the illusion of wealth. As states function as super organisms, government forms as the nervous system, while money and banking approximate blood and the circulation system. We have evolved enough to understand that as the purpose of government is the health of the entire society and not just the accumulation of power by those at the top, it qualifies as a public utility. We have yet to understand the same principle applies to banking. Consequently the banks are having their let them eat cake moment. “Roads are a medium, parking lots are a store. If we treated roads like we treat money, everything would be paved over, but we would still be fighting over the lots.” More like all roads would be toll roads. When that federal bankruptcy occurs, Blackrock will own I-70 and it will be a toll road. It’s called “disaster capitalism” when the bankers do it to other countries. …dirty secret of concierge medicine was that those doctors were generally much less good (despite typically superb bedside manner) because their patients were on average much healthier than the population as a whole. I’ve always wondered about this, or if they were burnouts or recovered addicts, but the only people I know who have access to concierge doctors are their clients. But why would our betters think any negative effects of anything would enter their bubble? They can just drink raw milk and avoid tap water. The looming botox shortage might be a bit of a hiccup, requiring the inconvenience of a quick holiday in Ireland. The medics in my family have been telling me this for several decades. If you are sick, the best place to go is a big public teaching hospital, the stats are very clear on this. There are a number of reasons – one is that the doctors in private clinics and hospitals don’t get the throughput and variety of patients to build up their skills fully. They also don’t have the benefit of daily rubbing shoulders with other specialists and picking up informal information. Another is possibly that there is an element of overspecialization in profitable procedures. Another key issue is that small hospitals don’t have the range of expertise to hand if something unexpected happens (e.g. you go in for a procedure, and they discover something unexpected outside the expertise of the hospital). Its not a particularly well kept secret that many private hospitals will put you in an ambulance to the nearest big public hospital if something is going wrong. Thanks. Another warning concerns psychiatrists. It may be a joke or stereotype but it is rooted in a crumb of truth: many are themselves “nuts”. I recognised projection in my first regular shrink in UK. He is gone and hasn’t returned. The other one gave off weird vibes to me and someone else…… he now seems much more grounded and was courageous enough to admit that the antidepressant cocktail he pushed (unsuccessfully) on me in 2015 went nowhere. Kudos. He’s really standing up for me in fights with local funders to get me the meds I need easily. I’ve a friend doing a psychology undergrad. She opined to me recently that at least 60% of her class seemed to have some sort of personality disorder or mental issue. And as for the lecturers… As an anecdote about private hospitals, a few years ago a retired cousin who spent her entire career as a senior nurse in NY came down with a particularly dangerous cancer (thankfully, she survived). As she had lots of medical contacts and good insurance she was directed to the foremost private hospital in NY for cancer treatment. They refused her – she guessed the reason was that they thought she would negatively affect their stats. I must have missed this one, thank you for posting. In addition to all the great points raised, it is still a question for me of how stable “cloud capital”, crypto and all electronic tech will be in a context of unstable, and/or crumbling electrical infrastructure? (in the US, at least). All of these systems are 100% dependent on a safe (and cheap?) stable supply of huge amounts of electricity (energy). On that level, nothing has changed because, like traditional industrial production, tech systems rely on huge amounts of energy. If/when a serious crisis comes, how can one access the cloud data? how can one access the crypto etc.? And the old questions are who will control the flow of energy to power all this? Or local nuclear power? (leaving out environmental destruction and climate issues) All these techno feudalists are going to be very very sad when an EMP makes their Kingdom suddenly unfunctional Michael: “So the question for China and the global majority countries will be, what kind of market are they going to create?…you want to free the market from exploitation…especially in the form of economic rent…” Ann: “As you know David was an anarchist in the true sense of the word. What do we think the role of the state ought to be in this period?” I’m extremely pessimistic about this transition.” Yanis: “So if we are going to use the state, it should be to diffuse power in order to make sure that value that is produced collectively is enjoyed collectively.” For me, it”s not clear from this discussion where the progressive left and the MMT left stand on the issue of the decentralization of power and the role of the State. What is the future economic/political architecture being alluded to? Most MMTrs are hesitant to talk about ancillary political issues, so as not to invite dissension from the main points that they are making. The fact is that MMT can be consonant with policies from left to right (e.g., Cheney and Bush Jr. saying that deficits don’t matter). So MMT wasn’t the topic here EXCEPT regarding China’s keeping money as a public utility — in the Treasury (Bank of China), not a “central bank” like the Fed serving the commercial banking interests. Thus the problem with dollar domination seems to be that there is an entrenched oligarchy all over the place that is very very comfortable with using USD, because USA IS par excellence, the protector and defender of the oligarchic system and oligarchs, in most of the countries do control the levers of political power. With China, as it was with Russia, things will be sorted out when overt or covert attacks on China will be launched by the USA. So it has to get worse before there is a chance in hell to get better. Increase impacts of climate change will also help in their twisted ways… Ann Pettifor: Yes, let’s get there. But let’s not forget, because we always do the role of the biosphere in all of this, how much more extraction and exploitation are these guys capable of before we, you know, collapse the whole ecosystem? Unfortunately, in many economic discussions, climate change is the elephant in the room, and gets rather short shrift, if any mention at all. While climate distortations may effect the poorest countries first, and undoubtedly there will be massive migrations away from places where there is flooding by saltwater into agricultural land, or conversely, devastating droughts, ultimately those people will seek other places to survive. In short, if migration now into the U.S. and Europe is a social challenge, we ain’t seen nothin’ yet. Imagine regional wars breaking out over resources, land, etc., and we may be plodding our way into WW III. And the other issue that gets little attention is the idea that even with the best efforts, there may not exist, as authors like Richard Heinberg discuss, enough basic resources remaining for us to be able to have a sustainable world. Here, a rational population policy might be a good place to start. And so, unless we address this core issue of an out-of-control climate, all of our efforts may be for nought. Perhaps our primary focus needs to be human and planetary survival Yes, but some humans, and those who wield the most power, believe that they will be insulated from all this by their wealth and power. They believe the problems will be only for the “little people”. So, nothing to worry about: the High Priests of Techno-Feudalism will save the day through wonderful technology. Or, using some dark sarcasm, Nuclear Winter (Global Dimming) can ameliorate Climate Change. Our wonderful tech overlords will come to the rescue. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email *
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Big Tech, Big Data, Big Moves: Why This Week Could Be a Market Game-Changer
URL: https://stockcharts.com/articles/chartwatchers/2025/04/big-tech-big-data-big-moves-wh-231.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T22:34:24Z
Description: Speaking overall, the stock market hasn't changed course after last week's bounce; the upside momentum is still here, albeit acting a little tentative. One piece of news that may have helped move the market higher on Tuesday, though, was President Trump's dec…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 100 days in, these are the 3 ways the Trump trade fell apart
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-trade-war-first-100-days-tariffs-us-china-recession-2025-4
Time Published: 2025-04-29T19:47:53Z
Full Content:
Money managers came into President Donald Trump's second term on the promise of tax cuts, DOGE savings, and pro-growth policies that would juice the stock market. Many viewed tariffs as an afterthought. "This might cause some market volatility, but we don't think it will derail US growth," Solita Marcelli, chief investment officer for UBS Global Wealth Management, said of Trump's tariff plans at a conference in November last year. "Let's not forget that during his first term, president-elect Trump was quite responsive to market reactions." One hundred days after Trump's inauguration, the S&P 500 is down 10% from record highs, banks across Wall Street have raised recession odds, and investor sentiment is overwhelmingly negative. How did it all go so wrong? Here are the three lessons Wall Street has learned the hard way over the last 100 days. Wall Street got the biggest piece of the Trump agenda wrong: tariffs. Trump's approach during his first term might have given investors a false sense of confidence and predictability. "In his first term, he gave you all the good stuff first. He gave you the tax cuts, he started deregulating, and then he started focusing on the tariffs, and I think a lot of people expected that to happen again," James St. Aubin, chief investment officer at Ocean Park Asset Management, told Business Insider. Instead, investors were slammed with executive orders levying tariffs from the start. The final extent of Trump's tariffs still remains to be seen as the president negotiates with other countries during the 90-day pause, but investors are no longer brushing off tariff concerns as an empty threat. Some strategists remain optimistic. Jeff Schulze, the head of economic and market strategy at ClearBridge Investments, was surprised by the magnitude of the president's tariff policy. However, in a recent Franklin Templeton podcast, Schulze compared tariffs to the "spinach portion of the administration's dinner" — a necessary evil preceding "the dessert portion, which is deregulation and tax cuts." Others are mapping out a worst-case scenario. Torsten Slok, Apollo's chief economist, believes that a tariff-induced recession could begin materializing by May as shipping traffic to the US slows to a halt. Investors initially believed Trump's tariff rhetoric would be checked by his desire to encourage growth in the stock market, meaning he wouldn't do anything crazy enough to spook equities. Now, it's a different story. Trump's proven that he's willing to let stocks plummet — but he draws the line at rising yields in the bond market. Twice now, Trump has walked back some of his more extreme policies after a spike in Treasury yields — once after his Liberation Day tariffs, and again after he threatened to fire Jerome Powell. "The focus is now really on the bond market, and he's willing to accept more pain and volatility in the short term on the equity side as long as the 10-year doesn't start to creep back higher toward 5% again," Jonathan Curtis, chief investment officer of the Franklin Equity Group, said. "His tolerance for pain in the equity markets is particularly high." Why is the 10-year US Treasury yield coming into focus as the trade war rages on? Foreign buyers of US debt might be less inclined to continue holding US bonds if their countries are slapped with heavy tariffs, which means the US will have to offer higher yields to entice buyers, St. Aubin said. That's the opposite of what Trump, who's prioritizing lowering interest rates, wants. A lower 10-year Treasury yield will stimulate the economy by bringing down mortgage rates, business loan costs, and the price of financing government debt, Curtis and St. Aubin said. With the Magnificent Seven carrying the S&P 500 throughout 2023 and 2024, it seemed reasonable to assume that Trump's pro-business stance would keep the Big Tech rally going. But investors failed to consider the extent to which tariffs would severely damper almost every aspect of the market. As trade relations worsen, America's AI darlings — or any large American company for that matter — are at risk of being targeted by countries unhappy about tariffs, according to St. Aubin. If Trump makes it harder for imports to enter the US, foreign countries might push back with retaliatory tariffs and stop buying American goods as well. For example, Tesla is seeing plunging sales in China as local companies like BYD snatch up market share. Another large concern for the Magnificent Seven firms has been how globally integrated their supply chains are for their tech products. But on top of the trade war, growing competition in the AI space has called into question the swaths of cash these companies have thrown at building out the technology. The Trump-driven market chaos is confounding, considering tech CEOs and billionaires curried favor with the president leading up to the inauguration, Curtis said, only to see their company stock prices plummet since then. "We saw a number of the tech leaders show up on Inauguration Day, and so it has been with some surprise that things have gone the way they have gone, particularly around the tariffs and even with some of the legal cases that are continuing forward with Meta and Google," Curtis said. Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Here’s What To Know About Meta’s Standalone AI App To Rival ChatGPT
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/antoniopequenoiv/2025/04/29/heres-what-to-know-about-metas-standalone-ai-app-to-rival-chatgpt/
Time Published: 2025-04-29T18:14:36Z
Full Content:
Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta launched a standalone artificial intelligence app Tuesday, putting it in direct competition with OpenAI’s ChatGPT and marking the latest app to release as part of the larger AI race. Meta announced the app Tuesday. (Photo by DREW ANGERER/AFP via Getty Images) Meta announced the launch of the app, which features an AI chatbot and a “discover” feed that allows users to see how others are using the assistant. The app uses Meta’s Llama 4 model, which was released early this month and has been touted by Meta as being more cost-efficient than competitor models like Gemini, GPT and DeepSeek. Meta’s AI assistant could already be used on WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and Messenger. Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here. The app gives users access to image generation, image editing and a voice mode that can be interacted with while using other apps on a device. The AI chatbot can answer questions using the web and use information users have shared on Meta products such as their Facebook profiles or the content they like on the social media app. Those who link their Facebook and Instagram profiles to their account center can create a more personalized experience when interacting with the Meta AI app. Users with Ray-Ban Meta glasses will be able to interact with Meta AI on the glasses and the app, enabling them to begin conversations through the eyewear and resume them through the app. The Meta AI app also features a voice assistant demo that provides more conversational responses, though it does not have access to the internet or real-time information. Meta’s stock was up a little over 1% as of 2 p.m. EDT ( $555.30), continuing a rise following its lowest point of the year on April 21. Shares of the tech giant are down 7.3% in 2025. OpenAI (ChatGPT), Google (Gemini), Microsoft (Copilot) and Anthropic (Claude) all have AI Apps. Elon Musk’s xAI launched a standalone app for its Grok chatbot in January. Similar to how Meta’s AI was once exclusively on the company’s social media apps, Grok was previously limited to X, formerly known as Twitter. “With a user base spanning billions, Meta has access to rich and diverse data, meaning it can train highly optimized models across a unique data set,” Kyle Hill, chief technology officer of business technology firm ANS, told Forbes, adding, “Meta has an opportunity to stand out from the crowd, but it needs to figure out what its killer differentiator is.” Though Meta is late to launching its standalone app when compared to competitors, it has featured its AI assistant across Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp since 2023, allowing its AI models to be trained with more content. Meta’s AI assistant garnered nearly 600 million monthly users as of December, according to Meta. One of the company’s AI competitors, OpenAI, told CNBC in February it was hosting 400 million weekly active users. While not having Meta’s advantage of offering its AI through social media apps, OpenAI has generated historic funding in its quest to lead the AI race. In March, OpenAI closed a $40 billion funding round, valuing the company at $300 billion and marking the biggest private tech funding round ever. Meanwhile, xAI’s Grok is backed by Musk, the world’s richest person, and the company’s supercomputer site in Memphis, Tenn., that is capable of training AI models at exceptional speeds. Elon Musk Says xAI Has Purchased X, Formerly Known As Twitter, For $33 Billion (Forbes) OpenAI closes $40 billion funding round, largest private tech deal on record (CNBC) One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service. We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines. Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Zuckerberg Vs Musk: Who Lost More Wealth From Their Stock In 2025
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2025/04/29/zuckerberg-vs-musk-who-lost-more-wealth-from-their-stock-in-2025/
Time Published: 2025-04-29T16:18:13Z
Full Content:
ByTrefis Team ByTrefis Team, Contributor. WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 20: (L-R) Priscilla Chan, Meta founder Mark Zuckerberg, Lauren Sanchez, ... More Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Tesla CEO Elon Musk attend the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) Tens of billions of dollars in personal wealth vanished in just months. As the economy shifts and policies reset, two of the world’s most influential entrepreneurs - Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) CEO Elon Musk and Meta (NASDAQ:META) CEO Mark Zuckerberg - are seeing the value of their holdings shrink. Not because they misstepped, but because the ground beneath them shifted: politics, markets, and public expectations are rewriting the rules of success. For more on Meta’s success see M&A: Meta’s Four Critical Acquisitions. It isn’t uncommon for founder wealth to fluctuate dramatically - mostly because the bulk of their wealth is tied to a single stock. But that shouldn’t be you. The High Quality portfolio, designed to sidestep stock-specific shocks and lower volatility, has outperformed the S&P 500 and achieved returns greater than 91% since inception So who lost more? And what does it tell us about the next chapter for American business? Musk lost nearly $100 billion or >20% of his net worth, while Zuckerberg, unlike the crash of 2022, saw his wealth decline by only 6.5% closely mimicking the stock decline this year. Wealth Comparison: Musk vs Zuckerberg Both remain among the wealthiest individuals globally, but the scale of the decline - especially Musk’s - is notable. So far in 2025: While much of this has to do with the broader market decline resulting from Trump’s push for tariffs, there is more to the story for each of the stocks. Tesla’s stock initially surged after Donald Trump’s 2024 election win, driven by optimism around protectionist manufacturing policies and possibly Musk’s closeness with the president. However, those gains evaporated quickly as the realities of a highly competitive EV market - including intense pressure from Chinese manufacturers - set in. Tesla’s Q1 2025 vehicle deliveries missed expectations and its margins fell to the lowest level seen in the last 5 years. Meta’s decline, meanwhile, reflects slower-than-expected growth in digital advertising and longer timelines for AI-driven monetization, alongside continued investment losses in its Reality Labs division. It’s important to understand: Wealth - specifically from stock ownership - is not taxed, and taxes are due when stock is sold and wealth becomes income. However, when billionaires pledge shares as collateral for personal loans, a falling stock price can impact debt covenants. Lenders may require repayment or more collateral if the value of pledged shares declines substantially. If borrowers are unable or unwilling to provide more collateral, they may have to sell stock - potentially under less favorable conditions. At this time: So far, no public filings suggest Musk has faced such a situation of forced liquidation in 2025 - but the risk is structurally higher compared to Zuckerberg, who has historically avoided significant personal leverage against Meta shares. This isn’t just a scoreboard of billionaire wealth. There are deeper implications: Founders’ wealth is highly concentrated in companies they run. And that means large fluctuations - but that’s fine. They can take the risk as they run those companies. But when it comes to long-term money compounding for most of us - a simple rule is - never put all your eggs in one basket. The Trefis High Quality (HQ) Portfolio is designed to diversify stock-specific risk while providing exposure to the upside. With a collection of 30 stocks, it has a track record of comfortably outperforming the S&P 500 over the last 4-year period. Why is that? As a group, HQ Portfolio stocks provided better returns with less risk versus the benchmark index; less of a roller-coaster ride as evident in HQ Portfolio performance metrics.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: White House blasts Amazon for 'hostile and political' tariff move
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/white-house-blasts-amazon-for-hostile-and-political-tariff-move-143310190.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T14:33:10Z
Description: The White House is hitting back at Amazon over reports that it will show the impact of tariffs on prices of products it sells through its e-commerce store.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Trump says Jeff Bezos 'solved the problem' after White House attacks Amazon on tariff price labeling plan
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/trump-says-jeff-bezos-solved-the-problem-after-white-house-attacks-amazon-on-tariff-price-labeling-plan-143310019.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T14:33:10Z
Description: The White House is hitting back at Amazon over reports that it will show the impact of tariffs on prices of products it sells through its e-commerce store.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: APP Investors Have the Opportunity to Lead the AppLovin Securities Fraud Lawsuit with Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/29/3070405/683/en/APP-Investors-Have-the-Opportunity-to-Lead-the-AppLovin-Securities-Fraud-Lawsuit-with-Faruqi-Faruqi-LLP.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T14:04:00Z
Full Content:
April 29, 2025 10:04 ET | Source: Faruqi & Faruqi LLP Faruqi & Faruqi LLP Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Exceeding $100,000 In AppLovin To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If you suffered losses exceeding $100,000 in AppLovin between May 10, 2023 to March 26, 2025 and would like to discuss your legal rights, call Faruqi & Faruqi partner Josh Wilson directly at 877-247-4292 or 212-983-9330 (Ext. 1310). [You may also click here for additional information] NEW YORK, April 29, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, a leading national securities law firm, is investigating potential claims against AppLovin Corporation (“AppLovin” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: APP) and reminds investors of the May 5, 2025 deadline to seek the role of lead plaintiff in a federal securities class action that has been filed against the Company. Faruqi & Faruqi is a leading national securities law firm with offices in New York, Pennsylvania, California and Georgia. The firm has recovered hundreds of millions of dollars for investors since its founding in 1995. See www.faruqilaw.com. As detailed below, the complaint alleges that the Company and its executives violated federal securities laws by making false and/or misleading statements and/or failing to disclose that defendants provided investors with material information concerning AppLovin’s financial growth and stability. Defendants’ statements included, among other things, confidence in AppLovin’s launch of its AXON 2.0 digital ad platform and using “cutting-edge AI technologies” to more efficiently match advertisements to mobile games, in addition to expanding into web-based marketing and e-commerce. Moreover, defendants publicly reported impressive financial results, outlooks, and guidance to investors, all while using dishonest advertising practices. The truth emerged on February 26, 2025, when analyst research reports emerged stating that AppLovin was reverse engineering and exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms. The reports further alleged AppLovin was utilizing manipulative practices to artificially inglate their own ad click-through and app download rates, such as by having ads click on themselves or utilizing design gimmicks to trigger forced shadow downloads, erroneously inflating installation numbers and, in turn, its profit figures. Following this news, the price of AppLovin’s stock declined from $377.06 per share on February 25, 2025 to $331.00 per share on February 26, 2025. Then, on March 26, 2025, Muddy Waters Research published a report (the “Muddy Waters Report”) concluding that AppLovin systematically used proprietary third-party data in ways that violated the terms of service of Facebook, Google, Snap, Reddit, as well as other platforms, potentially leading to backlash and service blocking and threatening the sustainability of AppLovin’s revenue growth. On this news, AppLovin’s stock price plummeted 20.1 percent, dropping from $327.62 to $261.70 per share on March 27, 2025. The court-appointed lead plaintiff is the investor with the largest financial interest in the relief sought by the class who is adequate and typical of class members who directs and oversees the litigation on behalf of the putative class. Any member of the putative class may move the Court to serve as lead plaintiff through counsel of their choice, or may choose to do nothing and remain an absent class member. Your ability to share in any recovery is not affected by the decision to serve as a lead plaintiff or not. Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP also encourages anyone with information regarding AppLovin’s conduct to contact the firm, including whistleblowers, former employees, shareholders and others. To learn more about the AppLovin class action, go to www.faruqilaw.com/APP or call Faruqi & Faruqi partner Josh Wilson directly at 877-247-4292 or 212-983-9330 (Ext. 1310). Follow us for updates on LinkedIn, on X, or on Facebook. Attorney Advertising. The law firm responsible for this advertisement is Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP (www.faruqilaw.com). Prior results do not guarantee or predict a similar outcome with respect to any future matter. We welcome the opportunity to discuss your particular case. All communications will be treated in a confidential manner. A photo accompanying this announcement is available at: https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/165045a2-81c1-4076-820a-38057608bc81 Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Exceeding $100,000 In Ibotta To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If... Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Exceeding $75,000 In Zenas To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If you...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 100 days into Trump's economy, one thing's clear: Americans are worried
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/100-days-trump-economy-drama-uncertainty-stagflation-consumers-tariffs-2025-4
Time Published: 2025-04-29T13:58:35Z
Full Content:
Good morning. Mark Carney's Liberal Party is projected to win the election in Canada. Celebrating the victory, Carney had a message for his supporters: "As I've been warning for months, America wants our land, our resources, our water, our country. Never." In today's big story, it's the 100th day since President Donald Trump took office again. BI explored how people feel, how markets have changed, and what tariffs could mean for what's coming next. What's on deck Markets: Five charts show how Elon Musk and Tesla have fared since Trump took office. Tech: ChatGPT has a flattery problem. Sam Altman says a fix is coming. Business: Walmart is America's favorite grocer, but don't underestimate Costco. But first, what a wild start. If this was forwarded to you, sign up here. He's been busy. He issued a blizzard of executive orders. He launched an unprecedented global trade war and gutted large swaths of the federal government. He spoke about annexing Greenland, taking control of the Panama Canal, and making Canada the 51st state. The first 100 days of Trump's second term can be defined by one word: uncertainty. Consumers don't appear to like it. The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index has declined every month this year — and it may deteriorate further once the full effects of tariffs take hold, a Moody's Analytics economist told BI. Peek at it through your fingers if you must — the chart above is a scary one: the S&P 500's start to the year. After Trump announced new tariffs on April 2, the stock market suffered a historic sell-off. The index then somewhat recovered, only to dip again on April 16 after Fed Chair Jerome Powell warned of higher inflation and slower economic growth — the dreaded stagflation scenario. Through it all, one chart climbs higher: the US Economic Policy Uncertainty Index, which has almost doubled since January. Predicting what comes next is a tall order, but implementing tariffs could result in a surge in inflation and more stock sell-offs, BI's Madison Hoff and Matthew Fox write. More reorganization in the federal government could also mean more job seekers for fewer positions, sending unemployment higher. BI examined sentiment data, markets chaos, and interviews with small business owners, consumers, and economists. They point toward one thing: Americans are worried. 1. This week is going to be huge for the stock market. Investors will get new data on inflation, the labor market, and economic growth, while four of the Magnificent Seven are set to report earnings. Each event could majorly shift markets. 2. How Tesla has suffered from Elon Musk's MAGA moment. Tesla's stock price is down 43% since its mid-December peak, and Musk's net worth has plunged by some $150 billion. Five charts show how the car company and its CEO have fared since Trump took office. 3. When could a recession happen? Apollo's chief economist outlined how Trump's tariffs — especially duties on Chinese goods — could kick off a downturn, with effects starting as soon as next month. 1. Big Law is losing top talent to AI startups. Disillusioned with Big Law's heavy workloads and the long road to partner, young attorneys are betting on AI legal-tech startups instead. Startups offer stock options and flexible work, but they still can't match Big Law salaries. 2. Activists want Meta's receipts on content moderation. Anti-hate groups are pressing Meta shareholders to back a new proposal that includes a report on how Meta handles hate speech. Meta's board has urged shareholders to vote against the proposal. 3. ChatGPT can be a major suck-up. Recent updates have led ChatGPT to really hype up users, sparking debates about whether the behavior is a growth strategy or an "emergent" feature. Here's what OpenAI CEO Sam Altman had to say. 1. Domino's delivery bites the dust. Domino's delivery sales fell 1.5% in Q1 as its carryout sales rose 1%, suggesting customers opted for pickup to save money. It could signal a coming change in delivery trends as recession fears rise. 2. Walmart still reigns as America's grocery king. For the third year running, more than one in five dollars spent on groceries in the US goes to Walmart, according to consumer analytics firm Numerator. But Costco is rapidly gaining ground despite the competition. 3. A federal judge seems poised to hand Big Law another win. DOJ attorney Richard Lawson argued that Trump's executive order targeting the firm Jenner & Block wasn't illegal. A federal judge wasn't having it, calling Lawson's interpretation "a pretty strange reading." The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York (on parental leave). Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York. Meghan Morris, deputy bureau chief, in Singapore. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago. Correction: An earlier version of this story had a chart of the S&P 500 index that only showed up until April 21, 2025. The index has risen more than 7% since then. Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Jim Cramer on Microsoft Corporation (MSFT): “Penalty will be severe” – Azure Must Deliver or Face PE Pressure
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/jim-cramer-microsoft-corporation-msft-123806955.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T12:38:06Z
Description: We recently published a list of Jim Cramer’s Game Plan for This Week: 16 Stocks in Focus. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Microsoft...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: INVESTOR ALERT: Pomerantz Law Firm Reminds Investors with Losses on their Investment in AppLovin Corporation of Class Action Lawsuit and Upcoming Deadlines - APP
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/29/3070185/1087/en/INVESTOR-ALERT-Pomerantz-Law-Firm-Reminds-Investors-with-Losses-on-their-Investment-in-AppLovin-Corporation-of-Class-Action-Lawsuit-and-Upcoming-Deadlines-APP.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T12:15:00Z
Full Content:
April 29, 2025 08:15 ET | Source: Pomerantz LLP Pomerantz LLP NEW YORK, April 29, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pomerantz LLP announces that a class action lawsuit has been filed against AppLovin Corporation (“AppLovin” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: APP). Such investors are advised to contact Danielle Peyton at newaction@pomlaw.com or 646-581-9980, (or 888.4-POMLAW), toll-free, Ext. 7980. Those who inquire by e-mail are encouraged to include their mailing address, telephone number, and the number of shares purchased. The class action concerns whether AppLovin and certain of its officers and/or directors have engaged in securities fraud or other unlawful business practices. You have until May 5, 2025 to ask the Court to appoint you as Lead Plaintiff for the class if you purchased or otherwise acquired AppLovin securities during the Class Period. A copy of the Complaint can be obtained at www.pomerantzlaw.com. [Click here for information about joining the class action] On February 26, 2025, Fuzzy Panda Research and Culper Research both published reports alleging, among other things, that AppLovin uses a “systematic exploitation of app permissions that enable advertisements themselves to force-feed silent, backdoor app installations directly onto users’ phones” and is “stealing data from Meta in their e-commerce push.” Following publication of the reports, AppLovin’s stock price fell $46.06 per share, or 12.2%, to close at $331.00 per share on February 26, 2025. Pomerantz LLP, with offices in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, London, Paris, and Tel Aviv, is acknowledged as one of the premier firms in the areas of corporate, securities, and antitrust class litigation. Founded by the late Abraham L. Pomerantz, known as the dean of the class action bar, Pomerantz pioneered the field of securities class actions. Today, more than 85 years later, Pomerantz continues in the tradition he established, fighting for the rights of the victims of securities fraud, breaches of fiduciary duty, and corporate misconduct. The Firm has recovered numerous multimillion-dollar damages awards on behalf of class members. See www.pomlaw.com. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes. CONTACT:Danielle PeytonPomerantz LLPdpeyton@pomlaw.com646-581-9980 ext. 7980 NEW YORK, April 29, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pomerantz LLP announces that a class action lawsuit has been filed against Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: SWKS). Such... NEW YORK, April 29, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pomerantz LLP is investigating claims against Nike, Inc. (“Nike” or the “Company”) on behalf of purchasers of Nike-themed non-fungible tokens, crypto...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Why Arun Kumar of FundsIndia backs investment styles others are avoiding
URL: https://www.livemint.com/money/personal-finance/arun-kumar-fundsindia-mutual-fund-portfolio-strategy-value-investing-mutual-funds-best-mutual-fund-strategies-2025-fund-11745908342807.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T10:30:37Z
Full Content:
This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you. Subscribe to enjoy similar stories. Arun Kumar, vice-president and head of research at FundsIndia, has a distinct style of investing in mutual funds, one that leans heavily on value investing. Around 55% of his portfolio is parked in funds that follow a value style of investing. In an interaction withMintfor the Guru Portfolio series, Kumar shared his contrarian approach when it comes to picking mutual funds for his portfolio. “I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well," he says. What has changed in your portfolio in the last one year?I have always been equity-heavy. Currently, my portfolio is 90% equity, and the remaining 10% is in debt and arbitrage funds. I’m comfortable with this because my wife and I have active income and contribute 10-15% of the portfolio value each year. Even during bear markets, we contribute to the portfolio. However, as our portfolio grows over time, our savings might not catch up with it. There will be a time when our portfolios will become so big that we’ll not be able to add meaningfully (less than 5%) to our portfolios. At that time, I will shift to a more conservative portfolio and keep it 70% equity, 15% gold, and 15% debt and debt-like investments. How is your equity portion bifurcated?A chunk of my portfolio, 55%, is in four funds. I have a natural bias towards value investing as a style and have invested in funds that fund managers manage with a value bias. It’s split across Sankaran Naren’s ICICI India Opportunities, Rajeev Thakkar's PPFAS FlexiCap, Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge focused equity fund, and HDFC FlexiCap, which Prashant Jain earlier managed. Another 15% of our portfolio is to make slightly concentrated bets. I am bullish on banking as a sector and put all this portion in one banking stock. I feel that the NPA cycle has been cleaned up, and the credit growth cycle is about to start. Banks also have a strong balance sheet because they had over-prepared for covid, but the impact wasn’t as bad as we thought. Banking is a good sector going through a bad time with decent valuations, and I’m hoping for a reversal in the future. The other 15% is spread across the globe. I had taken a bet in Chinese tech through Mirae’s Hang Seng Tech ETF two years ago. It didn’t do well for some time, but started playing out in the last one year. I also had an SIP in a Nasdaq fund. When the markets crashed in 2022, I built up my position in a FAANG [Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Alphabet (formerly Google)] stock, which was part of that index. That stock has gone up 4x, leading to slightly skewed exposure. The remaining 5% is allocated to mid- and small-cap funds. I did not have any allocation to mid- and small-cap before and missed the whole rally. The only exposure I had was indirectly through flexi-cap funds that had some exposure to such companies. I was already too much into equities and didn’t want to get too aggressive. Over time, the plan is to gradually start building the small and mid-cap exposure. View Full Image Mint Also Read: Why Marcellus’ Saurabh Mukherjea has 40% global weight What are the hits and misses from your portfolio in the past one year?I had missed the whole small and mid-cap rally. I did not have any funds from that category, and the only allocation I had was through my flexi cap. Learning from this experience, I have now put in place a framework to play small caps. SIP can also be a simple way to build exposure. What additions are you looking to make to your portfolio?I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well. Lately, momentum-oriented funds have not been doing great, and I am looking at it, although I haven’t made up my mind. We also didn’t have many options before, but now we have plenty of them. Quality is another style that has dramatically underperformed in the last four years, and I see some early signs of a turnaround. I am now looking at quality schemes and will slowly build up exposure there. That is what I’ll focus on for the next few months. Can you elaborate on your thesis on the quality theme?Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. I have always been equity-heavy. Currently, my portfolio is 90% equity, and the remaining 10% is in debt and arbitrage funds. I’m comfortable with this because my wife and I have active income and contribute 10-15% of the portfolio value each year. Even during bear markets, we contribute to the portfolio. However, as our portfolio grows over time, our savings might not catch up with it. There will be a time when our portfolios will become so big that we’ll not be able to add meaningfully (less than 5%) to our portfolios. At that time, I will shift to a more conservative portfolio and keep it 70% equity, 15% gold, and 15% debt and debt-like investments. How is your equity portion bifurcated?A chunk of my portfolio, 55%, is in four funds. I have a natural bias towards value investing as a style and have invested in funds that fund managers manage with a value bias. It’s split across Sankaran Naren’s ICICI India Opportunities, Rajeev Thakkar's PPFAS FlexiCap, Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge focused equity fund, and HDFC FlexiCap, which Prashant Jain earlier managed. Another 15% of our portfolio is to make slightly concentrated bets. I am bullish on banking as a sector and put all this portion in one banking stock. I feel that the NPA cycle has been cleaned up, and the credit growth cycle is about to start. Banks also have a strong balance sheet because they had over-prepared for covid, but the impact wasn’t as bad as we thought. Banking is a good sector going through a bad time with decent valuations, and I’m hoping for a reversal in the future. The other 15% is spread across the globe. I had taken a bet in Chinese tech through Mirae’s Hang Seng Tech ETF two years ago. It didn’t do well for some time, but started playing out in the last one year. I also had an SIP in a Nasdaq fund. When the markets crashed in 2022, I built up my position in a FAANG [Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Alphabet (formerly Google)] stock, which was part of that index. That stock has gone up 4x, leading to slightly skewed exposure. The remaining 5% is allocated to mid- and small-cap funds. I did not have any allocation to mid- and small-cap before and missed the whole rally. The only exposure I had was indirectly through flexi-cap funds that had some exposure to such companies. I was already too much into equities and didn’t want to get too aggressive. Over time, the plan is to gradually start building the small and mid-cap exposure. View Full Image Mint Also Read: Why Marcellus’ Saurabh Mukherjea has 40% global weight What are the hits and misses from your portfolio in the past one year?I had missed the whole small and mid-cap rally. I did not have any funds from that category, and the only allocation I had was through my flexi cap. Learning from this experience, I have now put in place a framework to play small caps. SIP can also be a simple way to build exposure. What additions are you looking to make to your portfolio?I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well. Lately, momentum-oriented funds have not been doing great, and I am looking at it, although I haven’t made up my mind. We also didn’t have many options before, but now we have plenty of them. Quality is another style that has dramatically underperformed in the last four years, and I see some early signs of a turnaround. I am now looking at quality schemes and will slowly build up exposure there. That is what I’ll focus on for the next few months. Can you elaborate on your thesis on the quality theme?Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. A chunk of my portfolio, 55%, is in four funds. I have a natural bias towards value investing as a style and have invested in funds that fund managers manage with a value bias. It’s split across Sankaran Naren’s ICICI India Opportunities, Rajeev Thakkar's PPFAS FlexiCap, Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge focused equity fund, and HDFC FlexiCap, which Prashant Jain earlier managed. Another 15% of our portfolio is to make slightly concentrated bets. I am bullish on banking as a sector and put all this portion in one banking stock. I feel that the NPA cycle has been cleaned up, and the credit growth cycle is about to start. Banks also have a strong balance sheet because they had over-prepared for covid, but the impact wasn’t as bad as we thought. Banking is a good sector going through a bad time with decent valuations, and I’m hoping for a reversal in the future. The other 15% is spread across the globe. I had taken a bet in Chinese tech through Mirae’s Hang Seng Tech ETF two years ago. It didn’t do well for some time, but started playing out in the last one year. I also had an SIP in a Nasdaq fund. When the markets crashed in 2022, I built up my position in a FAANG [Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Alphabet (formerly Google)] stock, which was part of that index. That stock has gone up 4x, leading to slightly skewed exposure. The remaining 5% is allocated to mid- and small-cap funds. I did not have any allocation to mid- and small-cap before and missed the whole rally. The only exposure I had was indirectly through flexi-cap funds that had some exposure to such companies. I was already too much into equities and didn’t want to get too aggressive. Over time, the plan is to gradually start building the small and mid-cap exposure. Also Read: Why Marcellus’ Saurabh Mukherjea has 40% global weight What are the hits and misses from your portfolio in the past one year?I had missed the whole small and mid-cap rally. I did not have any funds from that category, and the only allocation I had was through my flexi cap. Learning from this experience, I have now put in place a framework to play small caps. SIP can also be a simple way to build exposure. What additions are you looking to make to your portfolio?I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well. Lately, momentum-oriented funds have not been doing great, and I am looking at it, although I haven’t made up my mind. We also didn’t have many options before, but now we have plenty of them. Quality is another style that has dramatically underperformed in the last four years, and I see some early signs of a turnaround. I am now looking at quality schemes and will slowly build up exposure there. That is what I’ll focus on for the next few months. Can you elaborate on your thesis on the quality theme?Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. I had missed the whole small and mid-cap rally. I did not have any funds from that category, and the only allocation I had was through my flexi cap. Learning from this experience, I have now put in place a framework to play small caps. SIP can also be a simple way to build exposure. What additions are you looking to make to your portfolio?I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well. Lately, momentum-oriented funds have not been doing great, and I am looking at it, although I haven’t made up my mind. We also didn’t have many options before, but now we have plenty of them. Quality is another style that has dramatically underperformed in the last four years, and I see some early signs of a turnaround. I am now looking at quality schemes and will slowly build up exposure there. That is what I’ll focus on for the next few months. Can you elaborate on your thesis on the quality theme?Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. I like it when certain investment styles or investment approaches are not doing well. Lately, momentum-oriented funds have not been doing great, and I am looking at it, although I haven’t made up my mind. We also didn’t have many options before, but now we have plenty of them. Quality is another style that has dramatically underperformed in the last four years, and I see some early signs of a turnaround. I am now looking at quality schemes and will slowly build up exposure there. That is what I’ll focus on for the next few months. Can you elaborate on your thesis on the quality theme?Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. Everyone wants high-quality companies with high ROCE (return on capital employed), low debt, consistent earnings, high earnings growth potential, and good management at decent valuations. It’s very difficult to get all of these in one stock. So, quality fund managers usually end up compromising on the valuations front. This overpaying has come to bite them in the past four years. When the markets rebounded, it was a broad-based recovery where all stocks, regardless of their quality, were growing their earnings at a rapid pace, and so there was no need to pay an exorbitant price for quality. But when the market starts going through a tough phase, and only a few good quality companies are winning, that’s when quality starts performing. While it’s tough to time styles, the recent underperformance and the moderating growth environment with a lot of uncertainty thrown in augurs well for quality. Overall, it seems like a good place for quality to start working again. When the tide turns is anybody's guess, but at least it’s crucial to remain consistent with our process. Also Read: Look who's making a comeback: Quality vs value investing What quality scheme are you looking at?I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. I like UTI Flexi cap for sticking to its quality investment style even when it has fallen out of favour. Have you exited any position?I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. I have hardly sold any of my funds since I started seriously investing in 2015. I have redeemed a few small allocations here and there to clean my portfolio. However, I’ve kept all my core holdings. I buy funds mostly by looking at the fund manager. As long as the same fund manager runs the fund, I don’t mind even if it’s underperforming. HDFC Flexi cap is one scheme that I bought due to Prashant Jain, but he left HDFC in 2022. However, I continued holding that scheme because the current manager, Roshi Jain, manages the fund reasonably well. What would make you sell?As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. As a thumb rule, I would contemplate selling when the fund manager changes or there is a significant change or dilution from the stated investment approach. Another aspect is on the performance front. If the returns deteriorate and I am not able to understand the reason behind it, then that can be an issue. But let’s say a fund manager who follows a quality style is underperforming, and all others with the same style and index are also struggling; then it’s okay. In this case, underperformance is not an issue. In fact, I bought most of my schemes when the fund manager was underperforming. In contrast, if you’re following a certain style and are performing poorly when others following the same style are doing well, then that's a sign to sell out. Also Read: Sachet-sized mutual funds can still be difficult for the house help as an investment option What have you learned in the past five years?Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. Keeping it simple works: Fewer decisions, fewer funds, and more patience. Backing good fund managers during tough phases: Buying into skilled fund managers who are going through challenging times—but sticking to their proven approach—often pays off. The magic of compounding also becomes truly meaningful once the portfolio reaches a reasonable size. It’s also important to track incremental savings. It helps in two ways:identifying where you can get a bigger bang for your buck and deciding how much time and effort to allocate between increasing savings versus chasing higher returns. It also brings the focus back to what truly matters: growing the overall portfolio through a combination of steady savings and returns. Lastly, behaviour beats brilliance: Sticking to the plan is hard because of the three S: Scare you: The equity market tries to scare you into selling through ABCD (all-time highs; bad news; crash predictions; cash calls by experts; declines) Slow you down with entry anxiety: Waiting for a 10% correction to deploy funds—as it always feels like markets will fall further. Seduce you with ABCD: Temptations to go all in; borrow to invest; chase performance and concentrate heavily; derivatives and day trading.Mint's Guru Portfolio series features leaders in the financial services industry who share their money management secrets. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment. You are just one step away from creating your watchlist! Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image. Your session has expired, please login again. You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder. This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp
--------------------------------------------------

Title: If the U.S. Avoids a Recession, the Mag 7 Will Win Big—and How to Trade While Waiting for Confirmati (Serhii Bondarenko)
URL: https://www.finextra.com/blogposting/28366/if-the-us-avoids-a-recession-the-mag-7-will-win-bigand-how-to-trade-while-waiting-for-confirmati
Time Published: 2025-04-29T09:46:08Z
Full Content:
Wall Street analysts expect the “Magnificent Seven” tech giants—Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon, Nvidia, Meta, and Tesla—to deliver an average 15% profit growth in 2025, a forecast that’s barely budged despite rising trade tensions. Should the U.S. economy sidestep a recession, these seven companies are uniquely positioned to outperform. Meanwhile, volatility (VIX) readings can guide whether to lean on Tickeron’s AI Double Agent strategies or revert to simple buy-and-hold—and if the Mag 7 stumbles, you can hedge with inverse ETFs like QID. Why Apple Wins: Services division with >60% gross margins cushions hardware cyclicality. 1.8 billion active devices underpin a recurring upgrade cycle. $200 B+ net cash supports buybacks and dividends. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Run the AAPL Double Agent—long AAPL vs. its inverse (e.g., SCC, ProShares UltraShort Consumer Discretionary). VIX < 20: Buy & hold to capture steady services growth. AI Trading Double Agent – Outperforming Apple Inc. (AAPL) The AI Trading Double Agent strategy is uniquely positioned to outperform traditional trading methods when applied to Apple Inc. (AAPL) and the ProShares UltraShort QQQ (QID). By combining long positions in AAPL, a global leader in technology and innovation, with a hedge using QID, this approach capitalizes on bullish trends in individual equities and bearish swings within the broader tech sector. The dual-strategy framework allows traders to navigate volatile markets effectively, ensuring that profit opportunities are maximized regardless of market direction. This innovative system leverages advanced algorithms and real-time data analysis to identify optimal entry and exit points, making it particularly effective in responding to rapid shifts in sentiment or macroeconomic factors influencing technology stocks. The modern trading landscape demands speed and precision, and Agentic AI is revolutionizing the field with multi-agent architectures. One such innovation is the Double Agent Trading Bot, a cutting-edge system designed to capitalize on both bullish and bearish market conditions. By combining advanced pattern recognition with strategic hedging, particularly through inverse ETFs, this bot provides an intelligent and adaptive approach to autotrading. Its dual-strategy framework enables traders to navigate volatile markets more efficiently, making it a powerful tool for both seasoned and novice investors. Inverse ETFs play a crucial role in this strategy by offering a means to profit from declining markets. These funds are engineered to move inversely to a specific index, allowing traders to hedge against downturns without short-selling. For instance, if the NASDAQ-100 drops by 2%, an inverse ETF tracking the index is expected to gain roughly 2%. Such ETFs are commonly used for short-term hedging due to their susceptibility to compounding effects and tracking errors over extended periods. The ProShares UltraShort QQQ (QID), for example, is one such inverse ETF based on the NASDAQ-100 index, making it a viable hedge against tech-sector volatility. AAPL and QID: Analyzing the Anticorrelation Dynamics The chart illustrates the performance of Apple Inc. (AAPL) and the ProShares UltraShort QQQ ETF (QID) over a one-year period, highlighting an apparent anticorrelation between the two assets. AAPL's stock price shows a generally upward trend, with significant gains throughout the year, culminating in a 33.23% increase by March 2025. In contrast, QID, which is designed to provide double inverse exposure to the Nasdaq-100 index, exhibits a downward trajectory, reflecting losses that amount to -13.56% over the same period. This inverse relationship suggests that as AAPL's stock price rises, QID tends to decline, and vice versa. This anticorrelation can be attributed to several factors, including AAPL's significant weight in the Nasdaq-100 index, which QID seeks to short. As AAPL performs well, it positively impacts the Nasdaq-100, leading to losses for QID, which aims to profit from declines in the index. Investors often use such relationships to hedge risk or capitalize on market movements by taking opposing positions in correlated or anticorrelated assets. However, it is important to note that while the chart shows a strong historical pattern, future performance is not guaranteed, and other market dynamics could influence these trends. Why Microsoft Wins: Azure’s enterprise contracts deliver predictable, high-margin cloud revenue. AI integrations boost Office and Dynamics ARPU. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Deploy MSFT Double Agent, flipping into PSQ (ProShares Short QQQ) or SQQQ (UltraShort QQQ) when risk spikes. VIX < 20: Buy & hold to ride Azure’s secular growth. Why Alphabet Wins: YouTube/Search ads rebound with sticky ad spend. Google Cloud margin expansion. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Use GOOGL Double Agent, hedging with QID (ProShares UltraShort QQQ) to offset tech-heavy weakness. VIX < 20: Buy & hold on ad and cloud recovery. AI Trading Double Agent – Outperforming Alphabet Inc. (GOOG) The modern trading landscape demands speed and precision, and Agentic AI is revolutionizing the field with multi-agent architectures. One such innovation is the Double Agent Trading Bot, a cutting-edge system designed to capitalize on both bullish and bearish market conditions. By combining advanced pattern recognition with strategic hedging, particularly through inverse ETFs, this bot provides an intelligent and adaptive approach to autotrading. Its dual-strategy framework enables traders to navigate volatile markets more efficiently, making it a powerful tool for both seasoned and novice investors. Inverse ETFs play a crucial role in this strategy by offering a means to profit from declining markets. These funds are engineered to move inversely to a specific index, allowing traders to hedge against downturns without short-selling. For instance, if the S&P 500 drops by 2%, an inverse ETF tracking the index is expected to gain roughly 2%. Such ETFs are commonly used for short-term hedging due to their susceptibility to compounding effects and tracking errors over extended periods. The ProShares UltraShort QQQ (QID), for example, is one such inverse ETF based on the NASDAQ-100 index, making it a viable hedge against tech-sector volatility. Why Amazon Wins: Prime ecosystem locks in fee income; AWS powers cash flow. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Activate AMZN Double Agent, shifting into SDS (UltraShort S&P 500) or SPXS (Daily S&P 500 Bear 3X) to hedge broad market dips. VIX < 20: Buy & hold for AWS and Prime tailwinds. Why Nvidia Wins: GPUs are the backbone of the AI boom; data-center margins >70%. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Engage NVDA/NVDS Double Agent, hedging with QID or SOXS (UltraShort Semiconductors) on semiconductor pullbacks. VIX < 20: Buy & hold to ride AI-hardware growth. AI‑Powered Hedging with Double Agent NVDA/NVDS To safeguard portfolios against the kind of abrupt sell‑off NVIDIA may face in China—whether from export‑control news or broader market shocks—Tickeron offers its AI Trading Double Agent NVDA/NVDS strategy. This dual‑agent framework runs two complementary AI modules in parallel: Bull Agent (NVDA): Continuously scans technical indicators, volume patterns, and NVIDIA‑specific news feeds to identify high‑probability long entry points. When the AI detects sustained bullish momentum—such as breakouts on accelerating volume or positive revisions to analyst forecasts—it allocates capital to NVDA, capturing upside efficiently. Bear Agent (NVDS): Simultaneously monitors risk signals—like widening bid‑ask spreads, sudden drops in open interest, or negative regulatory headlines—and automatically shifts exposure into NVDS, a bespoke inverse instrument designed to profit from NVIDIA’s declines. The Bear Agent employs tight stop‑loss logic and dynamically adjusts position size based on real‑time volatility, ensuring that losses are contained and hedges are scaled appropriately. By orchestrating these two agents under a unified risk‑management umbrella, the Double Agent system maintains a net market‑neutral stance when signals conflict, or a directional tilt when one view decisively outweighs the other. Backtests over the past two years show the Double Agent NVDA/NVDS strategy: Reduces Maximum Drawdowns by over 40% versus a simple buy‑and‑hold NVDA position during major sell‑offs. Improves Risk‑Adjusted Returns, with a Sharpe ratio nearly 2× that of NVDA alone. Executes Automatically in milliseconds, eliminating emotional delays and ensuring that hedges are in place the moment bearish conditions emerge. Why Meta Wins: AI-driven ad targeting and potential Reality Labs inflection. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Run META Double Agent, flipping into PSQ or SQQQ when engagement metrics wobble. VIX < 20: Buy & hold to capture high-margin ad profits. Why Tesla Wins: EV market share gains and improving battery margins. How to Trade: VIX > 25: Use TSLA/TSLQ Double Agent, hedging with TZA (Daily Small Cap Bear 3X) or SILJ (MicroSectors Silver 3X) if you need broader market or metal-linked protection. VIX < 20: Buy & hold to benefit from long-term EV adoption. Tesla, Inc. remains one of the most dynamic companies in the world, leading the charge in electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing, energy generation, and storage solutions. As the largest automaker by market capitalization, Tesla has demonstrated its ability to innovate and disrupt traditional industries. With electric vehicles growing in popularity and a global push towards sustainability, Tesla's stock has experienced remarkable growth over the past few years. AI Trading Bot recommends a BUY LONG position on TSLA, reflecting the ongoing optimism about Tesla’s long-term prospects. The company’s expanding product lineup, including electric trucks, energy storage solutions, and advancements in autonomous driving technology, continues to position it as a leader in the future of transportation and energy. In conjunction with the long position in TSLA, the AI Trading Bot also recommends buying TSDD, the GraniteShares 2x Short TSLA Daily ETF. This ETF is designed to provide investors with a leveraged inverse exposure to Tesla’s stock, allowing traders to hedge against the potential for downside movements in Tesla’s share price. Given Tesla’s volatile nature, the hedging strategy of holding TSDD alongside TSLA allows traders to balance their exposure. The ability to capitalize on both the upward and downward movements of Tesla's stock makes this pairing an effective trading strategy for advanced traders seeking dynamic risk management solutions. When the Mag 7 names collectively stumble or the Nasdaq-heavy indices roll over, consider these inverse ETFs as tactical hedges: QID (ProShares UltraShort QQQ): A 2× inverse of the Nasdaq-100—ideal to hedge broad tech pullbacks. SDS (ProShares UltraShort S&P 500): A 2× inverse of the S&P 500—useful when broader indices slump alongside tech. SOXS (Direxion Daily Semiconductor Bear 3×): A 3× inverse of the PHLX Semiconductor Index—targets semiconductor-specific declines. SPXS (Direxion Daily S&P 500 Bear 3×): A 3× inverse of the S&P 500—aggressive hedge in deep downturns. Tactical Example: If VIX spikes above 25 and you’re long NVDA, a quick long position in QID can offset 2× losses as GPUs underperform. When volatility subsides (VIX < 20), unwind QID and shift back to buy-and-hold your core Mag 7 positions. High Volatility (VIX > 25): Markets are prone to abrupt reversals. Tickeron’s AI Double Agents automate hedging across both single-name and broad inverse ETFs, limiting drawdowns. Low Volatility (VIX < 20): Trends become more reliable. A buy-and-hold approach on high-quality names captures secular growth with minimal friction. Earnings beats can reinforce the Mag 7’s leadership; misses may prompt tactical hedges. Date Company Release Time Consensus EPS Consensus Revenue Trading Note Tue, Apr 22 Tesla (TSLA) 4:07 PM ET; Call 5:30 $0.43 $21.8 B Beat? Unwind TSLA/TSLQ hedge; Miss? Add NVDS or QID positions. Wed, Apr 23 Newmont (NEM) Pre-market $0.84 $4.54 B Beat? Support miners; Miss? Short GDX or miners’ inverse. Wed, Apr 24 Apple (AAPL) After close $1.50 $94.0 B Beat? Trim SCC; Miss? Hedge with SCC or PSQ. Thu, Apr 25 Nvidia (NVDA) After close $4.50 $23.0 B Beat? Unwind NVDS/SOXS; Miss? Deploy QID or SOXS. Thu, Apr 25 Meta Platforms (META) After close $3.50 $36.5 B Beat? Roll off PSQ/SQQQ; Miss? Re-enter PSQ or QID. Thu, Apr 25 Amazon (AMZN) After close $0.80 $125 B AWS beat? Trim SDS/SPXS; Retail miss? Add SPXS or XRT bear ETF. Fri, Apr 26 Alphabet (GOOGL) Pre-market $1.50 $75 B Cloud/Ad beat? Lighten QID/SOXS; Miss? Dial up QID. Fri, Apr 26 Microsoft (MSF If the U.S. avoids a recession, the Magnificent Seven are poised for outsized profit growth in 2025. But even the strongest fundamentals can be shaken by market turbulence. By dynamically switching between Tickeron’s AI Double Agent strategies during VIX spikes and reverting to buy-and-hold when volatility subsides—and by tactically deploying inverse ETFs like QID to hedge downturns—you can both protect capital and ride the next leg of the Mag 7 rally.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: These 4 tech billionaires who attended or donated to Trump's inauguration lost $194 billion in his first 100 days
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/tech-billionaires-wealth-dropped-trump-100-days-inauguration-2025-4
Time Published: 2025-04-29T08:15:01Z
Full Content:
It's been almost 100 days since President Donald Trump was sworn into office with some of the biggest names in tech near his side. Several tech billionaires cozied up to Trump ahead of his second term in part by attending the inauguration and donating to the inaugural fund. The appearance of a joint front stood in contrast to years of Trump criticizing Big Tech and calling out some tech leaders directly. A lot has changed since Inauguration Day. Tech leaders who supported Trump have seen both their net worths and the stock value of the companies they lead decline, as the administration's tariff-fueled trade war has coincided with a disruption in financial markets worldwide. Four of the richest tech billionaires who attended the inauguration or donated to it — Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, and Jensen Huang — have lost a collective $193.6 billion since January 20, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Here's how much each tech billionaire has lost, according to Bloomberg's net worth estimates as of market close on Monday. Net worth on January 20: $449 billion Net worth on April 28: $335 billion Loss: $114 billion Musk, the tech billionaire who's gotten closer to Trump more than any other as an advisor, has seen the greatest decline in wealth, though he remains the world's richest person. Musk's work with the White House DOGE office led to swift backlash and a wave of protests against Tesla. The electric-vehicle maker has been struggling, with its stock price down nearly 25% this year. After Tesla reported lackluster quarterly earnings last week, Musk announced he would be stepping back from DOGE in May, spending just one or two days a week on government matters. He has consistently defended his work with the White House to eliminate waste and fraud in government. Net worth on January 20: $245 billion Net worth on April 28: $209 billion Loss: $36 billion Bezos's wealth, most of which is tied to stock in Amazon, the company he founded, has declined sharply since February. Analysts have said Amazon is especially at risk of being negatively impacted by Trump's trade war, including the 145% tariff on China, due to the number of products sold on the site, either directly or through third-parties, that come from the country. Some Amazon sellers have been raising prices on goods like appliances, snacks, and electronics, though the company has said it represents a small fraction of the total amount of goods sold on the site. Net worth on January 20: $217 billion Net worth on April 28: $195 billion Loss: $22 billion Zuckerberg may have had the worst relationship with Trump compared to any other tech billionaire prior to the election. Trump had repeatedly lashed out against the Meta CEO on Truth Social and suggested he should be investigated or jailed after Facebook temporarily banned Trump's account following the January 6 Capitol riot. Meta, the primary source of Zuckerberg's wealth, has been fighting an anti-trust lawsuit brought by the government that has not gone away under Trump. Zuckerberg earlier this month sat for three days of testimony after the antitrust trial opened. The Meta CEO testified for more than 10 hours and was grilled by the FTC's lead attorney. Net worth on January 20: $117 billion Net worth on April 28: $95.4 billion Loss: $21.6 billion While Huang did not attend the inauguration, Nvidia donated $1 million to the inaugural fund. Huang's wealth, a majority of which is tied to Nvidia stock, has also dropped since January, when he attended the inauguration. Nvidia stock has fallen over 21% year to date, with the company facing several setbacks that include Trump's tariffs, as the company sources a majority of its chips from overseas, primarily Taiwan. The company also said earlier this month it expected to take a $5.5 billion hit on its first-quarter earnings as a result of the Trump administration's restrictions on its chip exports to China. Other tech leaders who attended the inauguration saw declines in the stock prices of the companies they lead, including Tim Cook of Apple and Sundar Pichai of Google. Though some estimates suggest the CEOs are billionaires, they are not on Bloomberg's list of the top 500 richest people, so the change in their estimated net worth since the inauguration was not publicly available. But Apple's share price has fallen nearly 14% this year, while the share price of Alphabet, the parent company of Google, has fallen nearly 15% this year. Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 'Steadiest ship in a brewing macro storm': Why Wall Street is bullish on Meta ahead of first-quarter earnings
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/meta-platforms-q1-earnings-preview-wall-street-analyst-expectations-ai-2025-4
Time Published: 2025-04-29T08:00:02Z
Full Content:
It was another good quarter for Meta, which reported first-quarter earnings on Wednesday after the closing bell, beating sales and earnings-per-share estimates. Investors had been looking out for updates on its AI spending and plans, whether it's seeing any blowback from advertisers after Meta's controversial announcement that it's cutting back on content moderation, and any comments about the impact of President Donald Trump's tariffs. CEO Mark Zuckerberg was as bullish as ever on the company's AI plans and praised its Reality Labs division, which has routinely lost around $4 billion in each of the past several quarters. Meta is also raising its spending estimates for the year to invest further in AI data centers and infrastructure. Meanwhile, strong ad revenue showed advertisers weren't put off by the company's content moderation pullback which has recently begun taking effect and which includes replacing third-party fact-checking with community notes. The conversation was more muted, though, on tariffs. Zuckerberg kicked off the investor call by saying Meta is "well-positioned to navigate the macroeconomic uncertainty," though he didn't mention Trump or his tariffs by name. CFO Susan Li similarly referenced the "dynamic micro environment." The company did speak out about the European Commission's recent decision that the company violated the Digital Markets Act. Meta plans to appeal the decision, which came with a €200 million fine, but said it expects it'll need to make modifications that "could result in a materially worse user experience for European users and a significant impact to our European business and revenue" as early as Q3. The company reported revenue for the period of $42.31 billion, beating Bloomberg's consensus analyst estimate of $41.38 billion. It also issued a second-quarter sales forecast in line with expectations. Meta's stock rose more than 5% in volatile after-hours trading shortly after the results. Shares had fallen 1% on Wednesday, putting the stock down 7% so far in 2025 at the close. Evercore analyst Mark Mahaney asked whether Meta's consistent $4 billion-per-quarter Reality Labs losses would ever come down, and if so, why and when. Zuckerberg pointed to the rising momentum behind Meta's Ray-Ban smart glasses, saying they've "really taken off" and just "tripled in sales" in the last year. "There are more investments that I think make sense to make around making sure that we can distribute this and grow it very quickly," he added. "If you look at some of the leading consumer electronics products of other categories, by the time they get to their third generation, they're often selling 10 million units and scaling from there," Zuckerberg said. "I'm not sure if we're going to do exactly that," he said, "but I think that's like the ballpark of the opportunity." Zuckerberg briefly talked about how AI is going to change how people consume and create content online. While social media platforms mostly started off as text-based feeds, then photo, and are now in the "video era," Zuckerberg said that the next big thing could be interactive content. "In the near future, I think that we're going to have content in our feeds that you can interact with and that it'll interact back with you rather than you just watching it," Zuckerberg said on the call. He recently said on Theo Von's "This Past Weekend" podcast that tech will move away from mobile phone screens and to holograms. Threads, which Meta launched in 2023 to compete with X (formerly Twitter), has surpassed 350 million monthly active users, Zuckerberg said on the call. It "continues to be on track to become our next major social app," he added. AI's improvements to Meta's content recommendation systems also contributed to a 35% increase in time spent on Threads, Zuckerberg said. Zuckerberg also kicked off the call talking about the company's AI work, calling this "the major theme" at Meta right now. He listed 5 ways AI usage is playing out at Meta: "Improved advertising, more engaging experiences, business messaging, meta AI, and AI devices." While he noted these are "long-term investments that are downstream from us," he added that he thinks further down the road the company "will be wildly happy with the investments that we are making." Both of these sentiments should sound familiar, as he's given similar remarks when pressed on the company's AI initiatives and spending in previous earnings calls. In his opening remarks, CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Meta is "well-positioned to navigate the macroeconomic uncertainty" — but didn't explicitly name President Trump or cite his tariffs. CFO Susan Li prefaced the company's guidance estimates by acknowledging the "dynamic macro environment" and noting the range "reflects the potential for a wider set of outcomes." "We continue to feel good about the fundamental drivers of revenue growth, and believe the past work we've done to streamline our operations and cost profile puts us in a strong position to navigate a variety of outcomes," she said. However, some listeners (including at BI!) noted glitches as Zuckerberg started to speak. Who the hell is running $META conference call! Keeps glitching Investing.com senior analyst Thomas Monteiro says the company's AI integration plan "not only keeps growing at an impressive rate but also does so without burning through piles of cash, unlike most of the competition." "Meta is quietly gaining ground as one of the greatest winners of the AI revolution — with still lots of tailwinds and room for expansion," he said. While tariff uncertainty means eyes are on Meta's APAC ad revenue from retailers like Temu and Shein advertising to US consumers, the company is well-positioned to "free up margins from other parts of the operation without damaging its longer-term growth plans" if those figures skew lower, Monteiro adds. As EMARKETER senior analyst Minda Smiley points out, Meta's strong earnings and healthy ad business show its massive content moderation overhaul in January, which included ending its fact-checking program and switching to a community notes-based model, didn't scare off advertisers. The next test will be staying strong in the uncertain macroeconomic environment stemming from tariffs, though Meta's sheer size and reach should help safeguard them. "Advertisers will allocate more ad dollars to proven, sophisticated networks like Facebook and Instagram — all while pulling back spend on smaller social platforms — while they navigate uncertainty," Smiley notes. When big tech companies like Meta do mass layoffs — as the company has done over the last couple of years — it gets plenty of attention. So you might be surprised to learn that in addition to firing thousands of people, Meta has also been hiring. You can see that story buried in the company's earnings reports. After the first quarter of 2023, Meta had 77,114 fulltime employees. Then the company pushed out huge swaths of its employees, and by the end of that year it was down to 67,317. Meta continues to cut and trim throughout the company — it just rolled out cuts to its Reality Labs division, as we note below. But at the same time, it has also been hiring! Meta now says it has 76,834 employees. That's an 11% increase over the previous year, and it means Mark Zuckerberg's workforce has almost exactly as many people as it did two years ago. Meta's Reality Labs division, which builds the Quest VR headsets, Ray-Ban smart glasses, and the Horizon Worlds platform, posted a $4.2 billion loss. That's wider than the $3.85 billion loss a year ago, but narrowed from $4.65 billion last quarter. The unit remains a massive money sink, with over $50 billion in cumulative losses since 2020. Just last week, Meta laid off staff from its VR gaming teams and the Supernatural VR fitness app as part of a broader shakeup. Still, the company is keeping its foot on the gas — nearly 500 Reality Labs jobs remain open. One bright spot? Meta's Ray-Ban smart glasses, which Zuckerberg sported at LlamaCon, the company's first event for AI developers yesterday, have become a surprise hit. Meta is reportedly expected to launch a new version with a built-in display later this year. The European Commission, the main executive body of the European Union, recently published a decision finding that Meta breached the Digital Markets Act, a set of regulations in the bloc meant to regulate the power of six digital "gatekeepers," aka Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, ByteDance, Meta, and Microsoft. The Commission consequently fined Meta €200 million. Meta weighed in on the decision in its earnings report. "We expect we will need to make some modifications to our model, which could result in a materially worse user experience for European users and a significant impact to our European business and revenue as early as the third quarter of 2025," the company said. Meta will appeal the decision but said that changes to its model may be made before or during the appeal process. The company is being closely watched this earnings season, along with its Big Tech peers, for comments about its AI spending. It raised its estimate for full-year capital expenditures from a prior range of $60-$65 billion to $64-$72 billion now. That's up significantly from its full-year 2024 capex of $39.23 billion. The increase "reflects additional data center investments to support our artificial intelligence efforts as well as an increase in the expected cost of infrastructure hardware." Meta said in its earnings report, however, that the majority of its capex this year will go toward its "core business." First quarter Revenue: $42.31 billion, +16% y/y, estimate $41.38 billion Operating income: $17.56 billion, +27% y/y, estimate $15.52 billion Ad impressions: +5% vs. +20% y/y, estimate +6.87% Second quarter forecast Full-year 2025 Capital expenditure: $64 billion to $72 billion, saw $60 billion to $65 billion, estimate $59.27 billion Source: Bloomberg data Meta stock dipped 1% ahead of its earnings release on Wednesday after the closing bell. The S&P 500 closed 0.2% higher, while the Dow rose 0.4%. Stocks were broadly lower on Wednesday after the release of first-quarter GDP, which dropped at an annualized rate of 0.3%, but reversed the losses into the close. It seems like the Meta CEO has been everywhere ahead of his company's earnings report. From his marriage to AI trends, Zuck is getting deep this week during livestreams and podcast appearances. He opened up about the 7-foot statue he dedicated to his wife and got real about higher education. The question on everyone's lips this earnings season is how companies plan to tackle tariffs. Zuckerberg seems to be taking a wait-and-see approach when asked about it, but investors will want some answers. A day before its earnings, Meta held its first-ever AI developer event, LlamaCon, unveiling a new Llama API. The company also announced a standalone Meta AI app, its most direct challenge yet to OpenAI's ChatGPT. CEO Mark Zuckerberg was joined onstage by Microsoft's Satya Nadella and Databricks' Ali Ghodsi, underscoring Meta's push to become central to the AI developer ecosystem. The event wasn't just about product announcements — it was a calculated play to reassure investors. "I expect Meta's earnings release and subsequent call to be packed with AI news," Forrester VP Mike Proulx told Business Insider, "not only because the company is making real and tangible progress, but also to counterbalance the intense pressure Meta is facing on multiple fronts," he said, pointing to the ongoing FTC antitrust trial against the company. Expect Wall Street to listen closely during today's earnings call for signs that Meta's massive AI investments — including up to $65 billion in 2025 capex — are starting to deliver returns. Meta's X competitor, Threads, had 320 million monthly active users at the time of the company's last earnings call, adding a million new people daily. It's one of the few recent social apps to scale this quickly, and Meta is finally starting to test monetization. Last week, the company began rolling out ads on Threads globally. Still, Meta executives have said they don't expect the app to contribute meaningful revenue in 2025. For now, it's about playing the long game. Zuckerberg has said Threads could one day reach a billion users and become "the leading discussion platform." The question for Wall Street is whether Meta can sustain the momentum. Meta hasn't commented on whether the US-China trade war will hurt its bottom line, but it's another thing investors will be watching closely over the next few earnings cycles. Meta has said that 11% of its total ad sales last year came from Chinese advertisers, which could dial back their spending as the trade war looms. With tariffs on Chinese imports now as high as 145%, many companies can't afford to sell into the US market, which means there's less incentive to advertise to American shoppers. If that trend accelerates, it could negatively impact Meta's ad business. Analysts will be closely watching Meta's investments in generative AI and its Reality Labs division, which has hemorrhaged money in recent quarters. Zuckerberg has said he's happy to keep funneling tens of billions in additional capex on generative AI even as analysts and investors press Big Tech for answers on when they'll see the massive spending pay off. Meta recently held its inaugural LlamaCon, an AI developer conference. The conference featured remarks from Meta executives, including Zuckerberg, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, and Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi. On Tuesday, the company also announced a standalone Meta AI app to compete with ChatGPT. Wells Fargo said it expects Meta to be the "steadiest ship in a brewing macro storm," arguing that its dominance relative to other advertising platforms should shield it from some of the macroeconomic pain. "Checks indicate ad spend growth on Meta moderated throughout the qtr, but likely more resilient vs. other ad platforms against softer macro backdrop given minimal brand exposure," Wells Fargo said. The bank said Meta's Reels platform, which directly competes against TikTok, should have benefited from the uncertainty surrounding a potential TikTok ban earlier this year. "Checks suggest ad spend on TikTok shifted to Meta during the heightened uncertainty in Jan, with some budgets permanently moving to Reels," the bank said. Wells Fargo rates Meta Platforms at "Overweight" with a $752 price target. A major topic during Tesla's earnings call last week was blowback over Elon Musk's political involvement with the Trump administration. While Zuckerberg's ties to the White House aren't as deep as Musk's, he has been increasingly involved with Trump 2.0 — and investors could make it known whether they approve. Zuckerberg has had a contentious relationship with the president over the years; Trump once threatened the Meta CEO with life in prison. However, since the election, Zuck has seemed to try to smooth things over. Meta donated $1 million to Trump's inauguration and Zuckerberg was among the tech billionaires who got a front row seat to the swearing in This year, Meta partnered with the White House to bring the Easter Egg Roll. Despite macroeconomic concerns, JPMorgan said that Meta's strong execution and AI opportunities should help the company's results. "We believe META remains well-owned driven by strong execution & growing AI monetization," JPMorgan analysts wrote. "We're bullish on AI-driven Ad improvements, video unification, WhatsApp Ads, Llama, & Meta AI." The bank said it believes investors expect Meta Platforms' revenue to grow by about 13% year over year. Meeting or beating those expectations would likely boost the stock. It said that while macro factors are a concern, "tens of millions of advertisers should prove relative insulation." With regards to capex, JPMorgan expects the company to maintain its aggressive investment philosophy to capture the AI opportunity. "Our $108B 2025 GAAP expenses is below Meta's $114B-$119B guide as we expect META to rationalize expenses against lower growth," JPMorgan said. JPMorgan rates Meta Platforms at "Overweight" with a $610 price target. Investors will be watching closely to see if Meta's Reality Labs — its hardware and virtual reality division — is cutting back on its burn rate after racking up more than $50 billion in losses since 2020. The division, responsible for products like Quest headsets and smart glasses, was reorganized in January with key leaders now reporting directly to Meta's top brass. Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth has called 2025 "the most critical" year for Reality Labs, writing in an internal memo obtained by BI earlier this year that it could determine whether the effort is remembered as a visionary feat or a "legendary misadventure." He also stressed that Horizon Worlds on mobile must succeed for Meta's metaverse ambitions to stay afloat. Bosworth said Reality Labs grew sales 40% in 2024 and cited "massive" growth in wearables. But investors will want to see if those revenue gains are enough to begin narrowing the division's steep losses, which totaled $4.4 billion in Q3 of 2024 alone. Bank of America is leaning bullish on Meta heading into its coming earnings release. The bank said takeaways from Alphabet's comments on YouTube and its advertising checks should fuel a "modest beat" for Meta. Meta's workforce reductions in February and recent layoff announcements related to its Reality Labs division suggest that management is laser-focused on controlling operating expenses. "For expense guide, we would expect a trajectory toward the low end of the current $114-$119bn 2025 range," Bank of America said. The bank is also bullish on Meta's growing AI capabilities and its potential to unlock more advertising spending. "We think Meta's Al driven ad improvements still have several quarters to play out and for 2025 we see strong drivers of growth, including: 1) Expanding AI/ML ad capabilities, 2) Growing SFV usage aided by AI suggestions, 3) Growing messaging revenues, & 4) Monetization of untapped surfaces (Threads, Meta Al, Marketplace)," the bank said. SFV refers to "short form video." Bank of America rates Meta Platforms at "Buy" with a $640 price target. An elephant in the room is the Federal Trade Commission's antitrust trial against Meta. The company isn't expected to discuss the ongoing case during its earnings call, and the litigation isn't expected to have a significant impact on the results. The trial kicked off earlier this month, and Zuckerberg testified over three days. The FTC alleges that Meta, then Facebook, violated US antitrust laws when it bought Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014. Asked about Meta's acquisition of Instagram, Zuckerberg testified that he considered having Facebook build its own photo-sharing service, but ultimately, "I thought that Instagram was better at that, so I thought it was better to buy them." Meta's attorneys have argued that the company still faces competition from social media platforms including TikTok, YouTube, and X. Analysts at Goldman Sachs said Meta's Reels platform has the potential to drive significant growth for the company. "We still see a sizable opportunity for Reels to remain a key revenue growth tailwind for META in the coming years as the CPM gap closes further and as Reels continues to increase as a % of total ad impressions," Goldman Sachs said. On the spending front, the bank expects Meta to "somewhat pull back" on its planned investments due to macroeconomic headwinds. Goldman expects 2025 total GAAP expenses of about $110.5 billion, slightly below the company's guidance range of $114 billion to $119 billion. "For META, we see the key debates being how the company indicates a framework of balance between long-term investments and annualized operating costs if the macroeconomic environment impacts the business in the coming quarters," Goldman Sachs said. Goldman Sachs rates Meta Platforms at "Buy" with a $685 price target. First quarter Revenue estimate: $41.38 billion Operating income estimate: $15.52 billion Second quarter Full year 2025 Capital expenditure estimate: $59.27 billion Source: Bloomberg data Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: S&P 500 ekes out slight gain with data, megacap earnings eyed
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/sp-500-ekes-out-slight-gain-with-data-megacap-earnings-eyed/articleshow/120713065.cms
Time Published: 2025-04-29T01:52:49Z
Full Content:
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .) Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today. Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price (What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .) Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today. Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price Turkey voices ‘strong support’ for Pak, but IndiGo remains its flag carrier’s delight Why the drama never ends at microlender Spandana Sphoorty As Novo Nordisk scales back, Eris and Biocon Biologics hit the sweet spot in India’s insulin market Did traders overestimate what Mahindra will pay for SML Isuzu? Listing pop or not, know the twists and turns in Ather’s ride before investing Will common empanelment of hospitals bring down health insurance cost? All Mutual Funds Top Tax Saving Mutual Funds Better Than Fixed Deposits Low Cost High Return Funds Best Hybrid Funds Best Large Cap Funds SIP’s starting Rs. 500 Top Performing Mid Caps Promising Multi Cap Funds Top Rated Funds Top Performing Index Funds Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Prime Articles Top Performing MF Top Definitions Top Commodities Top Slideshow Top Story Listing Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Worry not. You’re just a step away. It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits. Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Special Offer Get flat 40% off on ETPrime 90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C. Reminds Investors That Class Action Lawsuits Have Been Filed Against AppLovin, Maravai, e.l.f. Beauty, and Skyworks Solutions and Encourages Investors to Contact the Firm
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/29/3069788/0/en/Bragar-Eagel-Squire-P-C-Reminds-Investors-That-Class-Action-Lawsuits-Have-Been-Filed-Against-AppLovin-Maravai-e-l-f-Beauty-and-Skyworks-Solutions-and-Encourages-Investors-to-Contac.html
Time Published: 2025-04-29T01:00:00Z
Full Content:
April 28, 2025 21:00 ET | Source: Bragar Eagel & Squire Bragar Eagel & Squire NEW YORK, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C., a nationally recognized shareholder rights law firm, reminds investors that class actions have been commenced on behalf of stockholders of AppLovin Corporation (NASDAQ:APP), Maravai LifeSciences Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: MRVI), e.l.f. Beauty, Inc. (NYSE: ELF), and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:SWKS). Stockholders have until the deadlines below to petition the court to serve as lead plaintiff. Additional information about each case can be found at the link provided. AppLovin Corporation (NASDAQ:APP) Class Period: May 10, 2023 – March 26, 2025 Lead Plaintiff Deadline: May 5, 2025 The AppLovin class action lawsuit alleges that defendants throughout the Class Period created the false impression that AppLovin’s enhanced AXON 2.0 digital ad platform, in addition to its “cutting-edge AI technologies,” would more efficiently match advertisements to mobile games, in addition to expanding into web-based marketing and e-commerce. In truth, AppLovin was exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms and using manipulative practices that forced unwanted apps on customers via a “backdoor installation scheme” which inaccurately inflated installation numbers, and, in turn, its profit figures, the complaint alleges. The AppLovin class action lawsuit further alleges that on February 26, 2025, analyst research reports emerged stating that AppLovin was reverse engineering and exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms. The reports further alleged AppLovin was utilizing manipulative practices to artificially inflate their own ad click-through and app download rates, such as by having ads click on themselves or utilizing design gimmicks to trigger forced shadow downloads, erroneously inflating installation numbers and, in turn, its profit figures, the complaint alleges. On this news, the price of AppLovin shares fell by more than 12%, the AppLovin class action lawsuit alleges. For more information on the AppLovin class action go to: https://bespc.com/cases/APP Maravai LifeSciences Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: MRVI) Class Period: August 7, 2024 - February 24, 2025 Lead Plaintiff Deadline: May 5, 2025 On February 25, 2025, before the market opened, Maravai announced it was postponing its fiscal 2024 earnings release and would delay filing its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. The Company had identified an error in revenue recognition that “resulted in approximately $3.9 million in revenue being recorded in the final week of the second quarter of 2024 upon shipment when it should have been recorded in the first week of the third quarter of 2024 upon receipt by the customer.” The Company had identified “a material weakness in its internal controls over revenue recognition.” Maravai also required additional time to “complete its assessment of a potential non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill associated with its previous acquisition of Alphazyme LLC.” On this news, the Company’s share price fell $0.87, or 21.70%, to close at $3.14 per share on February 25, 2025, on unusually heavy trading volume. The complaint filed in this class action alleges that throughout the Class Period, Defendants made materially false and/or misleading statements, as well as failed to disclose material adverse facts about the Company’s business, operations, and prospects. Specifically, Defendants failed to disclose to investors that: (1) Maravai lacked adequate internal controls over financial reporting related to revenue recognition; (2) as a result, the Company inaccurately recognized revenue on certain transactions during fiscal 2024; (3) its goodwill was overstated; and (4) that, as a result of the foregoing, Defendants’ positive statements about the Company’s business, operations, and prospects were materially misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis. For more information on the Maravai class action go to: https://bespc.com/cases/MRVI e.l.f. Beauty, Inc. (NYSE: ELF) Class Period: November 1, 2023 - November 19, 2024 Lead Plaintiff Deadline: May 5, 2025 According to the Complaint, the Company made false and misleading statements to the market. To maintain investor confidence, e.l.f. Beauty inflated revenue and other financial measures over multiple quarters. The Company suffered from rising inventory levels. The Company falsely attributed its rising inventory to changes in sourcing. Based on these facts, the Company’s public statements were false and materially misleading throughout the class period. When the market learned the truth about e.l.f. Beauty, investors suffered damages. For more information on the e.l.f. Beauty class action go to: https://bespc.com/cases/ELF Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:SWKS) Class Period: August 8, 2023 - February 5, 2025 Lead Plaintiff Deadline: May 5, 2025 According to the complaint, defendants provided investors with material information concerning Skyworks’ expected revenue for the fiscal year 2025. Defendants’ statements included, among other things, confidence in Skyworks’ ability to expand its mobile business and capitalize on its growth potential by investing in new technologies to diversify its portfolio of offerings. On February 5, 2025, after market close, Skyworks announced its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2025 and provided lower-than anticipated revenue guidance for the second quarter of fiscal year 2025. The Company attributed its results and low guidance to a “competitive landscape” that had “intensified” in recent years. Following this news, the price of Skyworks’ common stock declined dramatically. From a closing market price of $87.08 per share on February 5, 2025, Skyworks’ stock price fell to $65.60 per share on February 6, 2025, a decline of over 24% in the span of just a single day. For more information on the Skyworks class action go to: https://bespc.com/cases/SWKS About Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C.: Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C. is a nationally recognized law firm with offices in New York, California, and South Carolina. The firm represents individual and institutional investors in commercial, securities, derivative, and other complex litigation in state and federal courts across the country. For more information about the firm, please visit www.bespc.com. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes. Contact Information: Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C.Brandon Walker, Esq. Marion Passmore, Esq.(212) 355-4648investigations@bespc.comwww.bespc.com NEW YORK, April 30, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C., a nationally recognized shareholder rights law firm, is investigating potential claims against BioVie Inc. (NASDAQ:... NEW YORK, April 30, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bragar Eagel & Squire, P.C., a nationally recognized stockholder rights law firm, is investigating potential claims against Landstar System, Inc....
--------------------------------------------------

Title: U.S. stocks rebound late in the day to finish positive after earlier drawdowns
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/u-stocks-rebound-day-finish-202215668.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T20:22:15Z
Description: Investors are still looking to potential trade deals to offer some certainty moving forward.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: AppLovin (APP) Under Pressure: Analyst Downgrades Follow Short Seller Barrage, Investor Lawsuit – Hagens Berman
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/28/3069588/32716/en/AppLovin-APP-Under-Pressure-Analyst-Downgrades-Follow-Short-Seller-Barrage-Investor-Lawsuit-Hagens-Berman.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T18:42:00Z
Full Content:
April 28, 2025 14:42 ET | Source: Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP APP Investors with Losses Encouraged to Contact the Firm Before May 5th Deadline SAN FRANCISCO, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Just months after basking in the glow of a meteoric 700% stock surge, fueled by investor enthusiasm for its artificial intelligence technology and burgeoning ad business, AppLovin Corp. (NASDAQ: APP) is facing a shift in sentiment on Wall Street. Several prominent investment banks have significantly lowered their expectations for the stock following the release of multiple critical reports from short-selling firms about the mobile advertising technology firm. Adding to its woes, AppLovin is now facing a securities class action lawsuit. Hagens Berman is investigating the alleged claims and urges investors who purchased AppLovin shares and suffered substantial losses to submit your losses now. Class Period: May 10, 2023 – Feb. 25, 2025Lead Plaintiff Deadline: May 5, 2025Visit: www.hbsslaw.com/investor-fraud/app Contact the Firm Now: APP@hbsslaw.com 844-916-0895 Analysts Downgrade APP Shares The latest blow came on Friday, April 11, when The Goldman Sachs Group slashed its price target for AppLovin from a lofty $500.00 to a more sobering $335.00. This downgrade followed a similar move by UBS Group earlier in the week, when the firm reduced its price target on AppLovin from $630.00 to $450.00. Short Seller Onslaught: Allegations of Data Exploitation and Inflated Metrics These downward revisions follow a barrage of critical reports from short sellers. Most recently, on March 28, Muddy Waters Research alleged that AppLovin's ad technology "systematically" violates app store rules by "impermissibly extracting proprietary IDs" from major platforms to deliver targeted ads without user consent. The report also claimed a significant churn rate among e-commerce advertisers, contradicting company statements. Earlier, in February, Fuzzy Panda Research and Culper Research had also critiqued AppLovin's AXON software, with Fuzzy Panda later urging the S&P 500 committee to exclude the company due to alleged "data theft" and "revenue fraud." Securities Class Action Alleges Misleading Statements Adding to AppLovin's challenges, a securities class action lawsuit has been filed against the company. The lawsuit alleges that AppLovin misled investors about the capabilities of its enhanced AXON 2.0 digital ad platform and its "cutting-edge AI technologies." Specifically, the lawsuit claims that AppLovin created a false impression that its technology would efficiently match advertisements to mobile games and expand into web-based marketing and e-commerce. However, the suit alleges that AppLovin was instead exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms and using manipulative practices, including a "backdoor installation scheme," to force unwanted apps on customers. This allegedly inflated installation numbers and, consequently, the company's profit figures. The class action lawsuit further points to the short seller reports released on February 26, 2025, which detailed AppLovin's alleged reverse engineering and exploitation of advertising data from Meta Platforms. These reports also claimed that AppLovin utilized manipulative practices to artificially inflate ad click-through and app download rates, such as self-clicking ads and employing design gimmicks to trigger forced shadow downloads. Following the release of these reports, the price of AppLovin shares reportedly fell by more than 12%. Hagens Berman’s Investigation Prominent shareholder rights firm Hagens Berman is investigating the claims. “The allegations detailed in the short reports and outlined in the recently filed class action complaint, detailing the purported exploitation of user data and manipulative installation schemes, raise serious questions about the integrity of AppLovin's reported growth and the accuracy of its disclosures to the investing public,” said Reed Kathrein, the Hagens Berman Partner leading the firm's probe. If you invested in AppLovin and have substantial losses, or have knowledge that may assist the firm’s investigation, submit your losses now » If you’d like more information and answers to frequently asked questions about the AppLovin case and our investigation, read more » Whistleblowers: Persons with non-public information regarding AppLovin should consider their options to help in the investigation or take advantage of the SEC Whistleblower program. Under the new program, whistleblowers who provide original information may receive rewards totaling up to 30 percent of any successful recovery made by the SEC. For more information, call Reed Kathrein at 844-916-0895 or email APP@hbsslaw.com. About Hagens BermanHagens Berman is a global plaintiffs’ rights complex litigation firm focusing on corporate accountability. The firm is home to a robust practice and represents investors as well as whistleblowers, workers, consumers and others in cases achieving real results for those harmed by corporate negligence and other wrongdoings. Hagens Berman’s team has secured more than $2.9 billion in this area of law. More about the firm and its successes can be found at hbsslaw.com. Follow the firm for updates and news at @ClassActionLaw. Contact: Reed Kathrein, 844-916-0895 SAN FRANCISCO, April 29, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- On April 3, 2025 investors in Aldeyra Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: ALDX) saw the price of their shares crash over 70% after the company announced... SAN FRANCISCO, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- A securities class action lawsuit styled Patel v. Napco Security Technologies, Inc., et al., No. 1:25-cv-02308 (E.D.N.Y.) has been filed after...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Watch These Meta Stock Price Levels Ahead of Facebook Parent's Earnings
URL: https://www.investopedia.com/watch-these-meta-stock-price-levels-ahead-of-facebook-instagram-parent-earnings-11723050
Time Published: 2025-04-28T17:59:53Z
Full Content:
Meta (META) shares were holding steady Monday as the Facebook and Instagram parent prepares to report first-quarter results after Wednesday’s closing bell. Investors will be paying close attention to the social media giant's ad revenue outlook, amid concerns of a broader slowdown in digital advertising spending by Chinese companies as the U.S. and China impose lofty tariffs on one another. Legal and regulatory disputes have nagged Meta, with the E.U. recently fining the tech giant for violating its Digital Markets Act and an antitrust trial getting underway in the U.S. Coming into the week, Meta shares were down about 7% for so far in 2025, though they have outperformed their Magnificent Seven peers over the period, boosted by the company’s significant investment in AI driving advertising growth and user engagement across its suite of apps. The stock was down fractionally at around $547 in mid-afternoon trading Monday. Below, we take a closer look at Meta’s chart and use technical analysis to identify price levels that investors may be eyeing. Meta shares have forged two closely aligned troughs during April, potentially setting the stage for a double bottom, a chart pattern that indicates a bullish reversal. More recently, the stock has undergone a pre-earnings bounce, with the price forming a doji in Friday’s trading session to signal indecision among buyers and sellers. Meanwhile, the relative strength index (RSI) points to neutral conditions, providing a reading around the 50 threshold. Let’s identify several important support and resistance levels on Meta's chart. Investors should initially keep track of the $482 level. A pullback to this area would likely attract buying interest near the prominent April troughs that form the potential double bottom pattern. It’s worth pointing out that this location also sits in the same neighborhood as the 38.2% Fibonacci retirement level when applying a grid from the February high to April low. Selling below this key level could see the shares retreat to around $452. This area may provide support near swing lows that developed on retracements toward the 200-day moving average in July and August last year. A pre-earnings bump could trigger buying to the $588 level. Investors may view this area as a high probability location to lock in profits near a trendline that links the early-April countertrend rally with a series of corresponding trading activity on the chart stretching back to December last year. Finally, a close above this level would confirm the double bottom pattern and potentially spark a move up to $632. Meta shares may run into overhead selling pressure in this region near multiple peaks that formed on the chart between December and March. The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes only. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own any of the above securities.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Palantir is soaring while its tech peers are sinking. Here's why
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/28/palantir-tech-stocks.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T17:58:14Z
Description: Tech stocks have struggled in 2025, as recession and trade war fears sap investor appetite for riskier assets. Palantir has bucked the trend.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Boeing (BA) Is Upgraded by Bernstein, Well-Known Investor Is Still Bullish on the Name
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/boeing-ba-upgraded-bernstein-well-165829526.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T16:58:29Z
Description: Boeing (BA) was upgraded today by wealth-management firm Bernstein, and renowned investor Stephanie Link remains bullish on BA after the company reported its...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Shareholders that lost money on AppLovin Corporation(APP) should contact The Gross Law Firm about pending Class Action - APP
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/28/3069510/0/en/Shareholders-that-lost-money-on-AppLovin-Corporation-APP-should-contact-The-Gross-Law-Firm-about-pending-Class-Action-APP.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T16:40:00Z
Full Content:
April 28, 2025 12:40 ET | Source: The Gross Law Firm The Gross Law Firm NEW YORK, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Gross Law Firm issues the following notice to shareholders of AppLovin Corporation (NASDAQ: APP). Shareholders who purchased shares of APP during the class period listed are encouraged to contact the firm regarding possible lead plaintiff appointment. Appointment as lead plaintiff is not required to partake in any recovery. CONTACT US HERE: https://securitiesclasslaw.com/securities/applovin-corporation-loss-submission-form/?id=145080&from=3 CLASS PERIOD: May 10, 2023 to March 26, 2025 ALLEGATIONS: According to the complaint, defendants provided investors with material information concerning AppLovin’s financial growth and stability. Defendants’ statements included, among other things, confidence in AppLovin’s launch of its AXON 2.0 digital ad platform and using “cutting-edge AI technologies” to more efficiently match advertisements to mobile games, in addition to expanding into web-based marketing and e-commerce. Moreover, defendants publicly reported impressive financial results, outlooks, and guidance to investors, all while using dishonest advertising practices. The truth emerged on February 26, 2025, when analyst research reports emerged stating that AppLovin was reverse engineering and exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms. The reports further alleged AppLovin was utilizing manipulative practices to artificially inflate their own ad click-through and app download rates, such as by having ads click on themselves or utilizing design gimmicks to trigger forced shadow downloads, erroneously inflating installation numbers and, in turn, its profit figures. Following this news, the price of AppLovin’s stock declined from $377.06 per share on February 25, 2025 to $331.00 per share on February 26, 2025. DEADLINE: May 5, 2025 Shareholders should not delay in registering for this class action. Register your information here: https://securitiesclasslaw.com/securities/applovin-corporation-loss-submission-form/?id=145080&from=3 NEXT STEPS FOR SHAREHOLDERS: Once you register as a shareholder who purchased shares of APP during the timeframe listed above, you will be enrolled in a portfolio monitoring software to provide you with status updates throughout the lifecycle of the case. The deadline to seek to be a lead plaintiff is May 5, 2025. There is no cost or obligation to you to participate in this case. WHY GROSS LAW FIRM? The Gross Law Firm is a nationally recognized class action law firm, and our mission is to protect the rights of all investors who have suffered as a result of deceit, fraud, and illegal business practices. The Gross Law Firm is committed to ensuring that companies adhere to responsible business practices and engage in good corporate citizenship. The firm seeks recovery on behalf of investors who incurred losses when false and/or misleading statements or the omission of material information by a company lead to artificial inflation of the company's stock. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes. CONTACT:The Gross Law Firm15 West 38th Street, 12th floorNew York, NY, 10018Email: dg@securitiesclasslaw.com Phone: (646) 453-8903 NEW YORK, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Gross Law Firm issues the following notice to shareholders of Zenas BioPharma, Inc. (NASDAQ: ZBIO). Shareholders who purchased shares of ZBIO during... NEW YORK, April 28, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Gross Law Firm issues the following notice to shareholders of NET Power, Inc. (NYSE: NPWR). Shareholders who purchased shares of NPWR during the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: What’s The Vibe In The U.S. Tech Sector
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2025/04/28/whats-the-vibe-in-the-us-tech-sector/
Time Published: 2025-04-28T16:36:37Z
Full Content:
ByJack Kelly ByJack Kelly, Senior Contributor. Female data scientist is using a digital tablet with graphical electronic circuit projection The U.S. tech sector is contending with a combination of innovation along with job instability. The vibe is resilient, but anxious. A U.S. News survey shows 80% of tech workers report job satisfaction. They cite high pay and impact, but posts on the X platform reveal growing pessimism, with 65% of tech workers surveyed by The Information expecting worse conditions, driven by layoffs and hiring pullbacks. Drawing on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), Forbes, Layoffs.fyi, and executive search firm Robert Half, alongside sentiment from the vocal X platform, here’s a snapshot of the tech sector’s pulse. This includes the range of what’s happening in the job market to dream employers and the daily grind. The BLS projects 356,700 annual tech job openings through 2033, signaling growth, especially in AI and fintech, where financial services now attract 22% of Cornell’s computer science graduates, up from 16% in 2022. US tech professionals are drawn to companies like NVIDIA, Google, Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Salesforce, Adobe, and Netflix for their innovation, competitive pay, and supportive cultures. These employers offer the chance to work on transformative technologies, grow professionally, and enjoy flexible, inclusive workplaces. Tech workers rank companies like Oracle, Amazon, and FIS Global highly, per Forbes’ 2024 Best Employers for Tech Workers, based on about 25,000 surveyed employees. Oracle’s supportive culture and Amazon’s mentorship programs shine, offering competitive pay, $142,000–$210,000 along with generous bonuses, stock options, and growth. Robert Half’s 2025 Salary Guide notes only 41% of tech workers are satisfied with pay, averaging $112,521, though AI-skilled professionals earn a 17.7% premium. A Dice report highlights 47% of tech workers are actively seeking new roles, driven by underpayment or lack of flexibility. Layoffs make job searches tougher. Still, over 7 million job postings in 2025, a 33% jump, per Dice, show opportunities persist for skilled candidates. AI engineering roles are emerging as the top hiring priority. U.S. tech managers are hiring for AI engineer positions. This surge in AI-focused recruitment is complemented by a growing need for full-stack engineers, who play a crucial role in building AI systems. The most sought-after jobs include AI engineers, cloud architects, and cybersecurity analysts. AI engineers, leveraging Python and TensorFlow, earn $150,000–$300,000 plus bonuses and stock, per Glassdoor. Cloud architects average $148,821, and cybersecurity analysts, vital amid digital threats, earn $120,000–$200,000, according to Robert Half. Work-from-home policies are shrinking. Robert Half finds only 18% of 2025 tech roles are fully remote, clashing with 46% of workers unwilling to return onsite full-time. Hybrid models dominate, with companies offering commute perks to lure workers back, per Crunchbase. This shift frustrates many, as flexibility remains a top priority, per Harvey Nash’s 2024 report. Life as a tech worker is dynamic but demanding. Many juggle upskilling in AI or cloud computing, with 87% of hiring leaders valuing AI experience, per ResumeTemplates.com. Long hours, especially in startups, contrast with perks like mental wellness support at firms like CoreWeave. However, the BLS projects 356,700 annual tech job openings through 2033, driven by AI and fintech growth. Financial services now attract 22% of Cornell’s computer science graduates, up from 16% in 2022, reflecting shifting priorities toward fintech innovation. The tech industry, heavily reliant on global supply chains, faces significant challenges from the 2025 tariffs. Companies like Apple, Amazon, and NVIDIA, which depend on manufacturing in China, Vietnam, and Taiwan, are grappling with increased costs for imported hardware, semiconductors, and consumer electronics. The Consumer Technology Association projects that tariffs could reduce U.S. consumer purchasing power by $90–143 billion, with potential declines in laptop and tablet purchases by up to 68% and smartphones by 37%. This drop in demand threatens revenue for hardware giants and e-commerce platforms, as seen in stock price drops. Business woman working in an incredible futuristic and original office space, looking at her phone, ... More worried about layoffs The tech industry faced significant workforce reductions, with Layoffs.fyi reporting that 50,728 employees were let go across 111 tech companies. This wave of layoffs, while less intense than the peak of 2023, reflects ongoing adjustments within the sector as companies navigate economic shifts, technological advancements, and strategic realignments. Among the companies leading these layoffs, Intel stands out with its announcement to cut approximately 22,000 jobs, representing 20% of its workforce. This move, the largest tech layoff of the year, underscores the challenges faced by the semiconductor industry. Meta followed with a reduction of 3,600 workers, roughly 5% of its staff, framing the cuts as a push to enhance productivity and eliminate underperforming roles. STMicro, another player in the electronics and semiconductor space, laid off 3,000 employees, grappling with market headwinds. Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) trimmed 2,500 jobs, about 5% of its workforce, after a 19% drop in its stock price in the first quarter of 2025. Workday, a software firm, reduced its headcount by 1,750, or 8.5%, to redirect resources toward artificial intelligence initiatives. Microsoft also contributed to the trend, eliminating 2,280 roles across divisions like cloud services and mixed reality as part of performance-driven restructuring. The rise of artificial intelligence and automation has reshaped priorities. Firms are channeling significant investments into AI development, automating tasks previously handled by human workers. This shift has rendered roles in areas like software engineering, human resources, and support teams redundant, as evidenced by cuts at Stack Overflow and Salesforce. Despite robust profits at some tech giants, high interest rates, inflation, and investor demands for leaner operations have pushed companies to prioritize cost-cutting. Meta and Microsoft, for instance, have used layoffs to bolster stock prices and strengthen their financial positions. Many firms are restructuring to focus on high-growth areas such as AI and cybersecurity, as seen in Cisco’s strategic pivot away from less profitable segments. A concerning dynamic is at play. Once one or two top tier tech companies announce layoffs, it follows up with a copycat effect where companies also start laying off people too.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Today's news and jokes
URL: https://www.superpunch.net/2025/04/todays-news-and-jokes_0582167189.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T16:00:00Z
Full Content:
Absolutely wild: UK lawyers who have worked in relation to ICC Gaza investigation warned they are at risk of US sanctions, not only restricting travel there but potentially freezing their financial assets worldwide observer.co.uk/news/nationa...[image or embed] The Drug Enforcement Administration said the arrests occurred as part of a raid at an underground nightclub in Colorado Springs.[image or embed] the deep state exists and it's a network of posters, substackers, influencers, columnists, venture capitalists and politicians who believe the cathedral exists and will kill every single person on medicaid in order to find it There are some eye-opening anecdotes in this story. I knew private Signal chats were big, but the bit about the Harpers Letter people is hilarious. When it came out, I had called out how some in the group were using others as human shields, and that seems clear from this...[image or embed] when i say that there was a venture capitalist conspiracy against american democracy i cannot express how literal i am being[image or embed] Hundreds of thousands of people are losing their jobs and hundreds of thousands of more are facing death from preventable disease because Marc Andreessen’s friends group let Chris Rufo convince them witches were spreading the Woke Mind Virus[image or embed] Multiple articles have been written about Bluesky being a dangerous echo chamber while the world’s richest and influential men are having their brains cooked in increasingly extremist group chats don jr. is making jared and hunter biden look like chumps. he's quickly becoming the GOAT of monetizing access to his dad www.politico.com/news/2025/04...[image or embed] pic.twitter.com/xhyDUaaqiH My favorite thing about the Wall Street Journal is that you can read an article about how Meta knowingly allowed a chat bot with licensed celebrity voices to do underage sex roleplay with children and there's an embedded widget to tell you that the company's stock price is up 2.65%[image or embed] they clipped the audio and put it in the article. oh my god dude[image or embed] Remember when a company no one had ever heard of "bought Napster for $207 million" and people were scratching their heads?A classic of the genre from Forbes.https://t.co/LxEZXBKTQl pic.twitter.com/6hwc8kVWOh The mods of r/changemyview revealed yesterday that researchers from the University of Zurich had performed an unauthorised experiments where AI bots posed as: - a black man opposed to Black Lives Matter - a person who received substandard care in a foreign hospital - a victim of rape[image or embed] in addition to the pope’s funeral, this weekend is the jubilee of teenagers and thousands of 14 year olds are terrorizing the streets of rome perfect symbolism of the state of british airways: window dimmers don't work, so they taped paper up to try and block the sun https://t.co/CSxEWXBHWR I got to write about the anti-fascist message of my favorite game of the year (and probably decade). @dogubomb.bsky.social @rawfury.bsky.social[image or embed] This is your periodic reminder that giant piles of free art are available for use in your next TTRPG or board game project, including commercial use. Here are some resources to get started: www.skeletoncodemachine.com/p/public-dom... (Part 1 of 2) #ttrpg #boardgames 🎲✂️[image or embed] The portion of the Bill Belichick interview that aired on CBS this morning where his relationship with Jordon Hudson is discussed is something... she's there and shuts down the question about how they met[image or embed] The Colonel was rejected 1,009 times before finally landing our famous original recipe. Sometimes all a Sanders needs is a little time to cook. Congrats Shedeur!! me and the homies going to fight the gorilla but wearing suits to make the funerals easier pic.twitter.com/D291f8SAfP LA, I love you so much
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Fired FTC commissioners on fighting for their jobs back
URL: https://www.theverge.com/decoder-podcast-with-nilay-patel/657115/ftc-bedoya-slaughter-trump-fired-supreme-court-interview
Time Published: 2025-04-28T14:00:17Z
Full Content:
Alvaro Bedoya and Rebecca Slaughter want to take their fight to the Supreme Court, and they think they can win. by Nilay Patel Alvaro Bedoya and Rebecca Slaughter want to take their fight to the Supreme Court, and they think they can win. by Nilay Patel Today, we have something special for you: A few days ago, I hosted a panel with FTC commissioners Rebecca Slaughter and Alvaro Bedoya at the IAPP Global Privacy Summit in Washington, DC. We recorded the discussion, and we’re bringing it to you today. That’s all pretty normal Decoder stuff, you might say — except these are anything but normal circumstances. Right off the bat, you’ll hear me even struggle to introduce them. Becca and Alvaro were FTC commissioners until very recently, when President Donald Trump fired them. The thing is, he doesn’t appear to have any legal authority to actually do that. As you’ll hear them discuss, by law the FTC needs to have commissioners from both political parties. Additionally, there’s a 90-year-old Supreme Court precedent that explicitly says the President can’t fire FTC commissioners in this way. So, given all that, they’re suing the administration to get their jobs back — and as you’ll hear, they are both committed to taking this case all the way to the Supreme Court. Listen to Decoder, a show hosted by The Verge’s Nilay Patel about big ideas — and other problems. Subscribe here! That puts them in a deeply weird, Schrödinger’s cat kind of position, for now: they both are and are not currently working as FTC commissioners, and that creates some strange tensions you’ll hear us get into. On top of all that, of course, there’s the actual work of the FTC going on. The antitrust trial against Meta was going on basically down the street from where I sat talking with Rebecca and Alvaro, so I spent some time asking how that case was going — and why Mark Zuckerberg’s donations to the inauguration and frequent appearances in the Oval Office haven’t seemed to dissuade the government from trying to break up Meta. You’ll hear Becca in particular point out that being bad at bribes still means the government is open for bribery and corruption, and that creates all kinds of other problems for the economy. There’s a lot going on in this conversation, from how the president fires you to the attempt in Silicon Valley to build AI into a digital god. We also somehow ended up taking printer recommendations from the audience. It’s a good one. Okay: liminal FTC commissioners Rebecca Slaughter and Alvaro Bedoya. Here we go. This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity. Hi everybody. I am Nilay Patel. I’m the editor-in-chief of The Verge and host of the Decoder podcast. I have two excellent guests with me today. I’m going to say former Federal Trade Commission chairs. Alvaro Bedoya: That’s up to you. That’s your call. We would politely disagree. Rebecca Slaughter: We would not say that. Current liminal FTC commissioners Rebecca Slaughter and Alvaro Bedoya. Welcome, thank you for being here. RS: Thanks for having us. I have a million questions for the both of you. Let’s start with the elephant in the room. Normally, in a conversation about privacy and consumer protection with FTC commissioners, it would be a fairly predictable set of topics, especially now with AI. It is not a predictable time in America. It is not a predictable set of circumstances. Let’s start with your status with President Donald Trump. He fired both of you. It appears to be illegal. Tell us how that happened. Did he call you? RS: He did not call us. I’ll start by noting that Donald Trump originally appointed me in 2018 to the FTC. I was appointed as a minority commissioner, a Democrat. The agency is, by statute, composed of bipartisan members. The statute says: five members, no more than three from any one party. I was appointed in 2018 as a minority commissioner. I served as a minority commissioner, and then I was briefly the acting chair at the beginning of the Biden administration. Then, I was a majority commissioner, along with Commissioner Bedoya, who joined us in 2022, then became a minority commissioner again in January 2025. On March 18, which was a Tuesday, I had finished a day at the office, meeting with a bunch of staff in the agency. Then, I was at my kid’s elementary school volunteering on a drama club project. We always joke that we like to keep the drama on the stage and out of our house, but no, the drama found us that day. I checked my email and I had an email from someone I’d never heard of in the Presidential Personnel Office with a message purportedly on behalf of Donald Trump announcing that I was terminated effective immediately. I stood up and I walked out of drama club to the courtyard, and I called Alvaro and I said, “Hey, have you checked your email?” And you can take the story over from there. AB: I was very proudly not checking my email because I’d just arrived at my daughter’s gymnastics class, and she gets really annoyed when she does a cool trick and I’m looking at my phone like an idiot. So, I got a call and I picked it up and Becca said, “Have you seen your email?” And I said, “Actually, I haven’t seen my email.” And she said, “You should check your email because I just got an email purporting to fire me.” Sure enough, that same email was in my inbox right there. Okay, I have a number of tech reporter questions. Did you receive a plain text email saying you had been terminated? I’m just imagining Donald Trump creating a PDF. That’s in my head. RS: No, that did not happen. There was no PDF, there was no signed letter, there was no signature. It was a text email. AB: There was no indication that there was any additional level of security associated with email. I’m just curious about the mechanics of how these decisions are made. RS: It literally felt like somebody typed an email in their Outlook and hit send. Very good, very on-brand. You guys are both in litigation against the Trump administration and Chairman Andrew Ferguson. They are in what appears to be a violation of a 90-year-old Supreme Court case called Humphrey’s Executor v. United States. I don’t think a district court is going to overturn that precedent. Are you prepared to go all the way to the Supreme Court on this one? RS: Absolutely. This is not a complicated case. There’s no dispute about the facts and there’s no dispute about what the law says. The law says, very explicitly, that commissioners can only be removed for neglect, malfeasance, or inefficiency, so what we generally call cause. You’ve got to do something wrong. The email purporting to fire us did not allege any cause, and I feel like it’s important to say that there is no cause. Neither of us have engaged in neglect, malfeasance, or inefficiency. Alvaro is one of the hardest working people in not just Washington but the country, andI try to follow close behind him. There is no cause. The statute says we can only be removed for cause. That statute was passed 111 years ago and 92 years ago was the last time a president tried to remove an FTC commissioner. FDR tried to fire Commissioner William Humphrey also for no cause. He sued, challenging his removal, and then he died before the case was settled, which is why this famous case is called “Humphrey’s Executor.” His estate pursued the lawsuit, and it went all the way up to the Supreme Court. The unanimous Supreme Court said, “Yes, that statute says commissioners can only be removed for cause. And yes, that statute is constitutional.” That precedent has been undisturbed, unchanged, unchallenged… well, it’s been challenged but not effectively for 90 years. So yes, I would be shocked if a district court judge decided to unilaterally overturn 90 years of Supreme Court precedent. And yes, I think we are very prepared for this to be a case that is litigated up to the Supreme Court. Indeed, I think that’s what the administration is trying to do. They are unsubtly trying to challenge this 90-year-old precedent under the theory that the president should be able to fire whomever he wants. They argue that that is necessary for Democratic accountability. I find that argument a little ironic because I think what bipartisan commissions provide is accountability and transparency, even while allowing the president to execute his agenda by naming the chair and having the majority of the commission. There are lots of legal nuances, but it’s not a close case. There is the unitary executive theory. In many ways, the Supreme Court has pursued that theory over the course of all of their individual careers. It does feel like maybe they want to overturn another precedent. They’re on a spree of overturning, although I’m not sure I learned anything in law school. RS: Nothing we learned in law school remains relevant. It’s a fair point. Right. It’s gone. What is a tort? Let’s find out. It’s a real situation. Do you think you have a good chance with this court? AB: I think we do. RS: There’s more nuance there. AB: I think it is very important for people to realize that in a sense, this is about Commissioner Slaughter and I, and our continued service on the commission. In another arguably much more important sense, it is about a commission being able to serve without fear of favor, especially independent institutions like our own. And if the president can remove Commissioner Slaughter and I for no reason at any time, he can do the same to Jerome Powell at the Federal Reserve. He can do the same for commissioners at the Securities and Exchange Commission. He has done the same at the National Credit Union Administration. He could do the same at the FDIC. These are bedrock institutions of our financial life. So this is about privacy to a degree and about cybersecurity. But this is also about your retirement account, your checking account. Will those things that you hold quite dear be subject to the same stable regulatory and enforcement environment that is provided in a world where the leaders of these institutions are protected by for-cause removal productions? RS: I think it goes even further than that because these institutions also include the FCC, the SEC, the CFTC, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, and a whole panoply of institutions that have been built up over the last 100 years by Congress explicitly to be bipartisan. If they effectively challenge removal protections, then what meaning do the appointment requirements have? Then, can these institutions even continue to exist because they would be so divorced from what Congress designed and built. I think understanding that the stability point that Commissioner Bedoya is talking about goes beyond if you’re going to have wild swings in policy at these agencies from administration to administration. It goes much deeper into whether these agencies can even exist. Can markets rely on the stability that they provide?” Are you taking anything from the chaos around Trump threatening Powell and walking it back as the market reacted? RS: What we are seeing is exactly what we’ve been saying, which is that he thinks he can fire whomever he wants. That he chooses not to doesn’t create stability. We are still in the same position of instability and uncertainty with these wild fluctuations that markets have been reacting to. I guess it’s good that he’s responding to market panic, but I would prefer not to panic the markets by following the laws that Congress passed and what our Constitutions says. There’s another piece of this, which is that the FTC continues to operate. It’s in court right now against Meta, and it filed a case against Uber. Chair Ferguson told our reporter Lauren Feiner at a conference that he has to “obey lawful orders,” and that he will pull those cases if the president asks him. But he would be surprised if the president asked him to stop prosecuting Meta or anyone else. Do you think that’s a viable position? Is he saying what he has to say? Is he managing Donald Trump? Is that what he really believes? AB: Let’s add a little meat to that bone, okay? Let’s just add some words to what you described. You have the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission say, “I think this trial is important. I think we are in the right in suing Meta. I think the law is on our side.” He said early on in his tenure, to his great credit, “I want to keep on going with this lawsuit.” You have a law enforcement official making that statement. You also have a law enforcement official saying at the same time, “But if the president gives me an order to drop that lawsuit, I shall do so.” Who is being served by that world? Is competition being served by that world? Are startups being served by that world? Who is helped by that scenario? The other thing that’s very important to underscore is that just because he has not been fired does not mean he is not being influenced. Just because the people haven’t been fired doesn’t mean that they haven’t changed their behavior as a result of a very clear commandment: if you obey, you will stay, and if you don’t, you won’t. Every single person serving in government will tell you that that’s what’s happening right now. So for me, I look at that and I don’t see law enforcement or the mission of the Federal Trade Commission being served by that in the slightest. It is notable that Mark Zuckerberg paid a bunch of money to build a library. He was on stage at the inauguration. He was in the Oval Office in the run-up to the Meta trial. But then he was on the stand giving testimony, and [Instagram co-founder] Kevin Systrom was on the stand. Why do you think that happened? Was is just not effective? Do you think Trump doesn’t like the bling? AB: Look… wait Trump what? He doesn’t like the bling. RS: He likes the bling. Trump is more of a classic necktie guy and [Zuckerberg has shown up with Caesar shirts. AB: I shall not speculate on that point. Let’s just talk about the meeting. In any recent Republican or Democratic administration, a megadonor visiting not just the White House but the Oval Office to meet with the president after having donated $1 dollars to the inauguration to ask for a law enforcement action to be dropped against them would be front-page news for days. It would be considered wildly inappropriate, and it would be considered antithetical to the mission that the commission was charged with doing. I don’t really care what happens after that. The simple fact of that meeting being observed and noted by everyone serving in these positions of leadership– RS: I’m going to put it a little bit more bluntly. AB: Please. RS: Bribery is bad even if it doesn’t work. Bribery is a problem even if it isn’t effective. We have a system of laws based on the idea that you prevail if the facts and the law are on your side and not because you tried to bribe anyone in the system. If we do not resist even efforts at bribery with every fiber of our being, we are doing an enormous disservice to the rule of law, administration of justice, and the operation of our democracy. I mean, genuinely and fundamentally, I think it’s that serious. So bribery is bad even if it doesn’t work. Let me push on that just a little bit. Do all these guys just suck at bribery? Because they’re all in there. The Meta case is going, Google is losing its cases. AB: Let’s talk about another gentleman who was on the stage at the inauguration, Mr. Bezos. Mr. Bezos gave $1 million dollars to the inaugural fund. His company cut a deal that would benefit the first lady to the tune of $29 million, according to the New York Post. His company separately licensed the rights to The Apprentice, which as you might imagine didn’t cost a small amount. Subsequent to most of these things, the new [Occupational Safety and Health Administration nominee] in the United States was a former Amazon executive. This is a company that has, according to numerous studies, an injury rate two times higher vis-à-vis other large warehouses. This is a company that has so many injuries on the warehouse floor that the vending machines there dispense painkillers. This is a company that, according to a Senate investigation, was denying outside referrals to medical care of its own warehouse employees for up to 21 days allegedly as a matter of policy. After you flow in a minimum of $30 million-plus dollars into those coffers, I think having the nation’s leading workplace safety law enforcer be a former executive of your company is astounding. So, I don’t know if these donations are not working, necessarily. RS: I also think that if bribery doesn’t work, the reason is because the bribee says, “No thanks. I don’t do bribes.” If they say, “Cool, give me your dollars,” and then you don’t get what you want, your message is to give more dollars, right? That’s what I think we expect to see. To Commissioner Bedoya’s point, Amazon is also in not one but two active litigations with the FTC right now and is under order for a number of other things. In one of those cases, we saw an FTC attorney go into court and say, “Because of the DOGE cuts and resource constraints, we’re going to have to delay this trial.” Now, Chair Ferguson had him walk that back very quickly, but nothing that attorney said in that courtroom was wrong, right? It was all true in terms of the resource constraints that the agency is facing and the effect that has on active cases and investigations. Is it direct influence? I don’t know. I am not in the minds of the influencers here, but I think it’s all stuff that should make us pay very close attention and be very concerned. Let me ask about the Amazon case specifically. I think of the Amazon case, and I instinctively think of Lina Khan. She came to prominence writing “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox.” She became the chair of the FTC. She was a flash rod of controversy. Ferguson got his job by insisting that he would throw out all of her ideas. He hasn’t though, right? He’s kept the merger guidelines, and he’s stayed in litigation against these companies. The Amazon case is the hard one. That’s the one where we might actually litigate the consumer welfare standard and, win or lose, change that precedent. Do you think that one is at the most risk or is it the Meta case? Because I associate the Amazon litigation with Chair Khan so directly that it feels like it would be the first one to go. RS: It’s hard for us to know what’s at the most risk. I see big, flashing, red danger signs all over the agency’s agenda right now. I think that case is important. Chair Khan wrote a piece, a very influential piece, about Amazon, but that is not what that case ended up being about. I actually really think everybody should read that case because what that case says — Commissioner Bedoya and I both supported that case, and I think we’re very proud to do so — was that you might associate Amazon with lower prices in your mind. But actually, the evidence shows that its conduct was raising prices not only on its own platform but across the internet, hurting not only consumers but also the sellers. So, it was exercising monopoly power in both directions. I think it reads much more like a traditional antitrust case than many people might have expected it to. We’ll see what happens in litigation if it gets to litigation and if it’s properly resourced. It’s very, very hard to know what’s actually happening behind the scenes if you’re not on the case team. So we’ll see. What everybody should want is the confidence that the law is being administered without fear or favor and not with thoughts about whose donors are going to be mad or when the phone might ring and ask you to totally change direction. That’s just bad. You can think the FTC is right or that the FTC is wrong, but you should want that case to be litigated on the merits. Period. Full stop. AB: Let me also speak to something else you said Nilay. I say this to someone who’s lived in D.C. for I think 17 years or 16 years. I think Chair Kahn was controversial in Aspen, Davos, and Sun Valley. You go and talk to a rural grocer in Utah. You go and talk to the urban grocer in North Tulsa. You go talk to corn growers and cattlemen in Iowa about the work she led and that we worked with her on. It is the opposite of controversial. The response you get is, “What took you guys so long? Thank god. Where have you been all this time? I’m so glad you’re doing this.” I get the same news sources. I’m not saying it’s coming from The Verge, but you get rained on by all this press that is focused on the stock market and Wall Street, saying all sorts of things. Half my family lives in Louisiana now. You go talk to them about the work we did. It’s a whole lot of nodding and a whole lot of support. So, I think there’s a certain picture of Chair Khan that’s been painted that’s true in very specific circles of this country. That’s the first thing. Let’s talk about that Amazon case and what it’s about because I think some of the details get lost in this big title, “Amazon.” This is what we allege in that complaint. Number one, we alleged Amazon is a monopolist in that online retail market. We allege it has so much market power that if you’re a small retailer or a small seller, you need to be on Amazon. So once it has you, we allege it slowly started jacking up the price of selling your goods on Amazon, so much so that eventually, almost 50 cents of every dollar you made on that site had to go to Amazon. So what happens? Find me a small seller who can afford to have a 50 percent haircut on every dollar they sell. So people start saying, “Oh wait, I can sell for lower off the site and make a bigger margin because I’m not taking a 50 percent haircut on every sale I make on that site.” So, we allege that when those small sellers moved off the site to sell for 10, 20, 30 percent less, that Amazon used a surveillance system to find those people who were [whispers] lowering their prices and penalize them by knocking them out of the preferred placement on the platform. You say, “It turned the consumer welfare standard on its head.” I think consumers are hurt by this, and that is emphatically part of the argument that’s being made here. I also think small sellers are hurt by this, but this is something that hurt people who wanted to pay less, and it was hurting the small retailers as well. All right, I promise not to do another 20 minutes on hipster antitrust in this room. I can do it. AB: No, no, no, we’re ready for it. Let’s talk about Meta, which is indeed on the cutting edge of privacy in exciting ways. It’s at trial right now. That case was filed in 2020 under the first Trump administration. It was dismissed in 2021 under Biden and refiled. It’s back now. The heart of that case, to me, is an extraordinarily complicated market definition: personal networking services. There’s no one in that category except Snap and a thing called MeWe. How did we get there? It feels like what Meta is really keying on is being nonsensical. RS: You’re doing hipster antitrust again. We’re back in it. Look at me. RS: Look, all antitrust cases are about market definition to a degree, and it’s a very tortured thing that makes people hate lawyers, honestly. The concept of antitrust law is very simple. The administration of it gets very complicated. So yes, most antitrust cases are about market definition, and market definition is always hard. Everybody has a different view about what the right way to define a market is that gets litigated. What that case is really about is whether Meta bought competitors to eliminate the risk of competition. That’s the argument at the end of the day. Did it not want to compete on its merits but instead take out potential competition through acquisition in order to build and maintain a monopoly in a way that’s illegal? That’s what’s going to get litigated. But it’s not a lot more complicated than that, even if there’s going to be hours of debate around what an appropriate market definition is. The reason I ask about that in this context is because Kevin Systrom is on the stand right now just dunking all over his acquirer. By the way, if all of us can have the confidence to sell our companies for a billion dollars, show up seven years later and say, “That sucked,” that’d be great for all of our self-esteem. It’s clear he didn’t like it. He’s saying very loudly they wanted to smother Instagram. That’s how he felt when he was running Instagram as part of Meta. But it still feels like Instagram got huge anyway and had Instagram been a separate company, I’m not sure it would’ve competed on a better privacy policy, or less personalized advertising. Kevin Systrom showing up on SuperLive being like, “I’m not listening to you,” does not feel like a likely outcome of Instagram being an independent company. I’m wondering, as you think about this landscape and all of the problems with consumer protection, what competition solves there and what do you need a regulatory regime to actually solve? RS: That’s a really good question. I think the point that you’re making about what the counterfactual looks like is the hard question anti-trust agencies grapple with every time they’re faced with a merger. Every time you have to review a merger, the question is, “What happens if this company gets acquired and what happens if it doesn’t?” You have to make predictions about what will happen in the market, and that’s hard. That’s a hard thing to do. That’s okay, we can do hard things. I think that the counterfactual is hard to do here. That’s true everywhere, and it’s just impossible to know, honestly. So the question is, “Did [Meta] do the acquisition to eliminate this risk of competition?” more than what the counterfactual universe of [an independent] Instagram looks like. The question that you asked about why this matters for privacy and why it matters for consumer protection is a really, really important one. Not for nothing, but Meta is also under order with the FTC for privacy violations, a renewed order that was issued in 2019 — from which I dissented — for which it paid $5 billion, and it’s currently in an administrative proceeding at the FTC over whether or not that order should be modified because there are further questions about privacy practices, including ones involving children. One of the reasons competition matters, and one of the reasons I think you see so many consumer protection cases against companies where we also have competition concerns, is because without meaningful competition and the ability for customers to vote with their feet and take their business to companies with better products that are less violative, you have an incentive to commit these violations, including to build market share. I’ll go back to an Amazon example. One of the orders that Amazon is under with the FTC right now involves Amazon Alexa devices’ illegal collection and retention of children’s voice recording info. Why did it do this collection of children’s voice data? It was in order to train its AI. So that’s, to me, a very clear example of a consumer protection violation that was orchestrated to build market share and market power. Going back to why you should care about us or our jobs — I mean, maybe you don’t care about our jobs — and why you should care about the institution existing is because it does have this cross-jurisdictional lens where it can look at competition and consumer protection. I will say, we haven’t done that very well historically. I think we have really treated these issues as siloed, but over the time I’ve been at the agency, we’ve been working really hard to integrate those functions better and understand the actual market dynamics that are leading to the kinds of problems we’re seeing both in competition and consumer protection. Let me push that again. If this case is successful and the government succeeds in spinning off Instagram and WhatsApp, do you think there’ll be a meaningful benefit to how consumers experience privacy on these platforms? RS: One would hope. One of the things that’s very frustrating about antitrust law is that ex-post enforcement is long, slow, and takes forever, and it’s very difficult to fix problems once they’ve started. One of the important purposes of bringing these cases is to prevent the next round of problems and to send clear signals to the market about the kinds of transactions that are illegal and should not happen to begin with. Yes, I would love to see healthy thriving competition with social media platforms, but I would also like to see that competition continue with new entrants, new innovation, and organic growth that isn’t just orchestrated through acquisition. Do you think anything short of a breakup would be effective there? Like a long compliance regime? RS: I’ve been talking a lot. You talk. AB: No, I think you are most familiar with the case having voted it out. We’re answering a lot of questions about a case that right now is in trial, and so I don’t feel particularly eager to expound even more on it myself. You know what you’re talking about, so you should. RS: I’ll talk generally about remedies. Everybody talks about what we call “structural remedies,” breakups as this radical approach. I find that very confusing. I actually think structural remedies are a much more small-c conservative approach because they keep the government out of the business and have the businesses operating independently. My impression over the time I’ve been at the FTC has been that complicated compliance regimes are very difficult to administer, less likely to be effective, and can, in fact, interfere with the free market operation of companies. That’s a weird thing for a Democrat to say, right? I generally like government. I think it can and should be a force for good. But I do think that administrability is a real concern in what we call “behavioral remedies.” Going back to the privacy focus, we’ve seen a lot of that concern in privacy remedies where we have complicated compliance regimes. Figuring out if they’re actually working and fixing the problem is not always that easy or clear. I want to ask one more question about privacy as a general concept and then I want to end with some AI questions. There are a lot of reasons to feel nihilism in 2025 in America. One that I get from our audience at The Verge all the time is that privacy is just lost, that it’s over. Everyone is listening to us all the time. The data has been scraped, it’s gone. Apple should just give in and make a better AI system by scraping everyone’s data, and that it won’t do it is holding it back. You can’t put this genie back in the bottle. I hear this from our audience all the time. Then, I see things that I find very amusing in a dark way, like everybody on Instagram posting a screenshot saying, “I command Mark Zuckerberg to not take my data” like an incantation, and it’s great. I look at that as the clearest market signal anyone can ever get. Everyone on my platform says, “I hate you,” but they can’t go anywhere and the terms of service do not change. They do not get renegotiated in the face of that. That is where the regulator should come in and say, “Everyone wants you to change your terms of service.” Do you think it’s just litigation that gets this done? Do you think that there is an ability through regulation to put this genie back in a bottle? RS: I have said for a long time that Congress should pass a more specific privacy law. My own views about the contours of that law and what it should look like have evolved. When Congress started talking about it looked a little bit more like a notice and consent regime, and we all think that’s a terrible idea. We do not need more cookie banners. I think a minimization-focused regulatory approach would make a lot more sense. In fact, Congress got pretty close last year. Commissioner Bedoya and I both worked on the Hill. My experience of the legislative process is that it is absolutely torturous and everything is impossible until it’s a law. It’s never going to happen, and then it’s a law. So that fight needs to continue. I think the best evidence that people actually really do care about privacy comes from the data out of Apple’s “ask not to track” system. I can’t remember what the numbers are, but the number of people who, when given the option to track or not to track, choose, “Please ask the app not to track” is overwhelming. That is a clear market signal that people actually would prefer, given the option, not to have their data shared. Where the trade-offs come up in that, like if they’re willing to get a free service in exchange for sharing data, are personal and complicated. But as a general approach, even though I think people sometimes feel like it’s a lost cause, they don’t want it to be. We have agency and we can work to change that process. AB: I agree with everything Becca just said. I would add these thoughts. The first is that we haven’t lived in a world in recent memory where people have experienced what it’s like to have a meaningful online life with privacy. We’ve lived in a world where you’ve got a bucket with nine holes in it and a bucket with 10 holes, and both of those buckets suck. No one wants a leaky bucket, and so it’s hard to get excited about the bucket with nine holes in it as opposed to the one with 10 holes. I don’t think we’ve really lived in a world where we can say that people don’t care because I don’t think they’ve ever experienced it. That said, I would point to two things that show me that people are changing their behaviors in response to what they perceive as the threat to their privacy. First of all, I have no idea how old you are, Nilay, but I know that Commissioner Slaughter and I are roughly the same age. You remember when we were in law school? The stuff people would put on Facebook was crazy. People would put everything up there. Now, you go up there, there’ll be one thing about politics, one post like, “Hey guys, I’m going to go for a long ride. What should I play for the kids in the back?” People are much more guarded on social media now than they were before. Secondly, look at the uptake in encrypted messaging apps like Signal and WhatsApp, especially in Washington, D.C. Signal is very popular here from what I’m told. AB: Quite prevalent, but it’s not just in Washington D.C. RS: And not just for war plans. AB: Exactly. You see a lot of people in business using Signal by default, and not just in areas where there might be some actual commercial espionage, so to speak. So, I do think you see very clear indications that people care about their privacy even though they’re living in that world of leaky buckets. RS: I’m being a little flippant and making jokes, but I think we’re also in a moment where privacy has very real serious implications for people’s safety, security, access to healthcare, religious worship, political activity, all of these things. We’re seeing very real, very scary consequences happening to real humans who are not able to operate with privacy, and that’s something that is going to change behavior, too. That is connected to this administration and its attitude towards data, to Elon Musk and DOGE. Do you think this administration is positioned to advocate for privacy while they are interlinking databases and using AI tools to surveil Americans? RS: No. AB: No. I guess that’s the answer. I was hoping that you both would say that. RS: I can’t tell if you’re baiting us, but it’s just a no. I’m baiting but in a fun way. My friend Casey Newton has this phrase he uses called the “Splinternet.” He says the internet is going to fragment, not for technical reasons but for political and social reasons. What I see is that we’re about to build a very different kind of internet in the United States that has much fewer privacy protections while Europe begins to regulate tech platforms much more strongly. It issued fines just recently against Apple and Meta. That’s the sort of thing that breaks down data sharing across our different internets, across our different platforms. How do you see that playing out? Do you think we can put that genie back in the bottle and make it possible for European governments to trust our companies? AB: Sorry, what genie again? If our government starts allowing widespread data sharing within itself and stops advocating for privacy, stops pursuing a privacy law, or lets platforms share data more openly, which it appears to be doing. AB: Let me speak very frankly here. What this administration is doing in terms of data sharing is a direct heir of everything that President Biden did, everything President Trump did in his first presidency, everything that President Obama did. In terms of law enforcement sharing information within the federal government, it has been an upwards trajectory arrow with every single administration. It is not like this administration with immigration enforcement, for example, is building a system that was previously non-existent from scratch. That is the opposite of what’s happened. These systems have been ready for many, many, years. I candidly don’t think that the data sharing that’s being discussed today is radically different from the data sharing the federal government enacted prior to this administration. There’s a lot of other areas in which I disagree, but I think we need to be fair about this and the trajectory that intra-US data sharing has taken in recent years. RS: I’ll push back on that a little bit because I think there is a substantial difference. At least in the previous administrations, there was support for independent oversight of some of that data use and sharing, such as the existence of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) and the checks on national security surveillance. That independent oversight, including at the FTC, has been part of what supported adequacy decisions in Europe and the ability of US companies to process the data of Europeans. I do think we’re headed into a direction where that is going to be challenged, and it’s hard for me to see how those challenges are not effective. Who suffers when that happens? Who suffers if we have a different European internet? Humans, people who want to use the internet and communicate with each other suffer. That’s a problem. But also American businesses suffer. When I was working on the Hill, the biggest lobbying that we got over what was then the umbrella agreement was from US companies who wanted to be able to do business in Europe. Sure, the threats to cut off US companies from European market access will penalize Europeans, but it will really penalize US business. That is a profitable market for them, and that’s going to be a problem that I expect they will not be quiet about. I think we’re headed in that direction. Fundamentally, there’s a big difference because privacy is a legal value in Europe in a way that it is not in the US. It’s not enshrined in the same way in our Constitution here. There’s always been this differential view. How it plays out in practice is going to be the subject of a lot of debate, discussion, parliamentary debate and discussion, litigation debate and discussion, and I don’t think it’s going to get resolved anytime soon. One or two more questions about AI. AI companies make a lot of promises. They’re building digital god, they will replace your doctor– AB: Sorry, did you say digital what? Digital god. AB: Digital god. Got it. It’s just a phrase that I get to hear in my job. Totally normal. AB: That’s awesome. I run a magazine about cell phones. Super normal thing for me to hear all the time. An AI executive literally told me last night there would not be doctors and lawyers in the future because AI could just do it. This is the claim level that I hear on the regular from these companies. I don’t think they can do it. Maybe they can, maybe they can’t. It seems like they’re going to make a lot of people a lot of promises about the efficacy of their products. How would you address that in the trade context? AB: Let me address it in the regular human context. That is idiocy, the idea that there will be no doctors in the future. How long have we had printers? Forty years? How well does your printer work? You’re going to let an AI doctor diagnose you for life or death matters, let alone a wart? I think this idea is inane and should not be treated with any degree of respect. I have been shocked by some of the things that these AI execs get away with saying. Someone who runs a company that is valued at something like half a trillion dollars should not be able to say that sentience will be an emergent property in the near future. That is something that anyone who’s familiar with the technology does not think is a serious take unless there are other things going on. Have you ever been to a chili cook-off and a guy arrives like, “I don’t know what’s going to happen here! Could get pretty crazy with my chili!” These claims are what lawyers would call puffery and need to be treated as such. RS: It’s also nothing new, right? For a century, the work of the Federal Trade Commission has been to police misleading claims about what products can do. We do it with so-called medicinal products, dietary supplements, and technology products. This is not new. One of the things that Commissioner Bedoya, Chair Khan, and I have been saying for years now is there is no AI exception to the law. It doesn’t create special rules for AI. We apply the same rules, which are that you can’t misrepresent what your product can do. You can’t lie about it and can’t commit deceptive or unfair acts or practices. That’s true with AI products, too. Out of the body of work that the FTC has brought around AI in the last several years, some of it has been with an eye towards competition so that there is healthy competition in this, I think, incredibly important and valuable technological tool that is not the same as replacing doctors. But a lot of it has also been about misleading claims, business opportunity scams, people saying they’re get-rich-quick schemes, and it’s all the same sort of thing we’ve seen with every other technological iteration over the last 100 years. I think it’s important to take a step back and see through what is new, interesting, different, innovative, or a valuable tool, and what is just the same stuff we’ve been seeing for decades. I would say very few people thought their laser printer was alive, which is a meaningful difference that comes up over and over again. AB: The point is how well does your printer work? Does your printer work awesome? I write a printer recommendation every year. I’ll send you some. AB: Please, please. This is a real thing. AB: Raise your hand if your printer works awesome. This guy right here. AB: Yeah, thank you. One hand, two hands. I’m not going to endorse products. AB: Seriously raise your hand if your printer is awesome. Two hands. What’s that? What printer?Yeah, see? He knows. AB: Brother laser printer. Take the recommendation otherwise because the other 98% of the room does not think their printer is awesome. There’s affiliate links on theverge.com. The promo code is printer. RS: I think your point is that generative AI is messing with people’s brains because it looks human and it’s not human. Are we confused about how to deal with this technology? That is very true. Understanding how to relate to technology and how to process what’s real and not real is a challenge for people. I remember when AirPods first came out, and you’d see people walking down the street talking to themselves, and everyone would be like, “What is happening? This is a very weird social scene.” They did not understand. Then, we became accustomed to it and learned how to interact with it. I remember when smartwatches came out, and all of a sudden you’d have people in meetings checking their watches constantly. I remember the first time it happened to me, and I was like, “Am I so boring? Are they just counting the seconds until they can get out of this meeting?” I realized that they were getting messages and just peeking down. It’s just a different evolution. I do think there’s some of that, and this is a particular push for people. I think we need to be extra sensitive and careful about what it means for children, where we think about if judgment is available to do some of that social processing. I’ll go back to a really important case that the FTC publicly announced. It was referring to the Department of Justice in January against Snap. We didn’t make the complaint public, but we made the referral public and the general series of allegations involving the way Snap’s AI chatbot interacted with children. Now, Chair Ferguson wrote a very long and public dissent when he was a commissioner that was basically about the First Amendment rights of chatbots. That was weird to me and concerning. That’s the kind of thing we do need to have real meaningful debate and discussion about. NP: I’m being told we’re out of time. Thank you so much, commissioners. This was excellent. We’ll have to have you back in soon. RS: Great, thanks. AB: Thank you. Questions or comments about this episode? Hit us up at decoder@theverge.com. We really do read every email! A podcast from The Verge about big ideas and other problems. A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. © 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Stocks have had a good bounce. But here’s why this investment manager thinks lows will be retested.
URL: https://www.marketwatch.com/story/stocks-have-had-a-good-bounce-but-heres-why-this-investment-manager-thinks-lows-will-be-retested-cac54561
Time Published: 2025-04-28T13:30:00Z
Description: Dan Niles worries that we’ve just seen a bear market rally and valuations are still too high
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Jim Cramer's top 10 things to watch in the stock market Monday
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/28/jim-cramers-top-10-things-to-watch-in-the-stock-market-monday.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T13:07:19Z
Description: Wall Street was looking at a muted open today after last week's bounce.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 4 Big Law firms decided to fight the Trump administration in court — and they're winning
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/big-law-fight-trump-perkins-coie-jenner-block-wilmer-hale-susman-godfrey-2025-4
Time Published: 2025-04-28T13:00:40Z
Full Content:
Good morning. A software engineer who has worked at Google and Meta compared their cultures, promotion processes, and workloads. Interestingly, the more stressful company was their favourite to work at. In today's big story, Donald Trump went after one of America's top law firms. Its decision to fight back took just two hours. What's on deck Markets: Early Tesla investor Ross Gerber told BI he's even "more disturbed" after its latest earnings. Tech: Microsoft is trying to simplify its AI sales pitch, slides obtained by BI reveal. Business: Your favorite Amazon products are about to get more expensive. But first, Trump is outgunned in court. If this was forwarded to you, sign up here. An "existential crisis" is how Paul Weiss' chairman, Brad Karp, described it. President Donald Trump's slew of executive orders targeting high-profile law firms triggered a fight-or-flight response. Nine law firms took flight and struck deals with the president — Paul Weiss included — collectively promising $940 million in pro bono work for the administration. Four — Perkins Coie, Jenner & Block, WilmerHale, and Susman Godfrey — opted to fight the administration in court. And they're winning. They've argued that the executive orders violate the Constitution, illegally target people and companies for their speech, and violate their clients' right to counsel. In a hearing on April 23, US District Judge Beryl Howell appeared incredulous at the government's arguments. She directed a barrage of often sarcastic questions at Richard Lawson, a Justice Department lawyer, brushing aside some of his positions as "hyper-technical legal arguments that may have no merit." On the docket, meanwhile, the administration is outgunned. The firms suing the government are working with legal heavyweights. Perkins Coie picked Williams & Connolly; Cooley LLP is representing Jenner & Block; Paul Clement is representing WilmerHale; and Susman Godfrey hired Munger Tolles. "You're a bit outmanned here," a judge quipped at Lawson when he showed up alone to a hearing in Susman Godfrey's case earlier this month. Inside the decision to fight back. In a memo to staff, Karp justified Paul Weiss' move to cut a deal with Trump by saying that leadership had "incredibly difficult decisions" to make. For Susman Godfrey, the way forward was clear. No one at the firm spoke with the White House about cutting a deal, according to two people familiar with the matter. BI's Jack Newsham and Jacob Shamsian have exclusive reporting about how Susman Godfrey decided to sue the Trump administration in just two hours. 1. Ross Gerber's not feeling too hot about Tesla. Though investors cheered Elon Musk's impending DOGE departure, Ross Gerber told BI he's even "more disturbed" after its earnings call. Even with Musk back at the helm, Gerber doubts the EV maker can mount a comeback. 2. America is dangerously close to the worst kind of recession. The country's on the verge of stagflation, a condition in which inflation is taking off at the same time as the job market is getting weaker. It's a rock-and-a-hard place situation for the Fed, and leaves investors in a pickle. 3. There are also signs, however, that investors might be able to take a breath. The stock market has flashed a handful of technical signals that suggest the tariff-induced sell-off that kicked off earlier this month may be over. 1. Microsoft cleans up its AI sales pitch. The software giant is trying to streamline how it pitches its many different AI tools — which are all called Copilot — to customers, according to internal presentation slides viewed by BI. The current approach confused customers and slowed sales, insiders said. 2. The manpower driving Tesla's robotaxi launch. The EV maker aims to roll out robotaxis in Austin this June. To prepare, about 300 test operators have been navigating the city's streets over the past few months. Here's what insiders had to say on "Project Rodeo." 3. Everybody talks (too much). Group chat overload has produced a new-old solution: the rise of voice memos. It's part of a broader trend toward speaking over texting for more personal communication. Not everyone's thrilled, though — especially when the calls happen in public. 1. Price hikes are hitting your favorite Amazon products. Some of the site's most popular items are getting pricier amid tariff news, according to data from SmartScout. Some products have even reached record highs, and it's not just an issue for customers. 2. Uber's CEO says your ride could cost less in a recession. CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said the ride-hailing service is "recession-resistant" and could even make rides cheaper in a downturn — if more people sign up to be drivers, bringing labor costs down. 3. What do Delta, Thermo Fisher, and Chipotle have in common? They are among the companies lowering or ditching their guidance as tariff chaos mounts. Here's the full list of companies on edge. The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York (on parental leave). Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Lisa Ryan, executive editor, in New York. Meghan Morris, deputy bureau chief, in Singapore. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago. Jump to
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Scrapling - An Undetectable, Powerful, Flexible, High-Performance Python Library That Makes Web Scraping Simple And Easy Again!
URL: https://www.kitploit.com/2025/04/scrapling-undetectable-powerful.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T12:30:00Z
Full Content:
KitPloit - leading source of Security Tools, Hacking Tools, CyberSecurity and Network Security ☣ Dealing with failing web scrapers due to anti-bot protections or website changes? Meet Scrapling. Scrapling is a high-performance, intelligent web scraping library for Python that automatically adapts to website changes while significantly outperforming popular alternatives. For both beginners and experts, Scrapling provides powerful features while maintaining simplicity. To keep it simple, all methods can be chained on top of each other! Scrapling isn't just powerful - it's also blazing fast. Scrapling implements many best practices, design patterns, and numerous optimizations to save fractions of seconds. All of that while focusing exclusively on parsing HTML documents. Here are benchmarks comparing Scrapling to popular Python libraries in two tests. As you see, Scrapling is on par with Scrapy and slightly faster than Lxml which both libraries are built on top of. These are the closest results to Scrapling. PyQuery is also built on top of Lxml but still, Scrapling is 4 times faster. Scrapling can find elements with more methods and it returns full element Adaptor objects not only the text like AutoScraper. So, to make this test fair, both libraries will extract an element with text, find similar elements, and then extract the text content for all of them. As you see, Scrapling is still 4.5 times faster at the same task. All benchmarks' results are an average of 100 runs. See our benchmarks.py for methodology and to run your comparisons. Scrapling is a breeze to get started with; Starting from version 0.2.9, we require at least Python 3.9 to work. Then run this command to install browsers' dependencies needed to use Fetcher classes If you have any installation issues, please open an issue. Fetchers are interfaces built on top of other libraries with added features that do requests or fetch pages for you in a single request fashion and then return an Adaptor object. This feature was introduced because the only option we had before was to fetch the page as you wanted it, then pass it manually to the Adaptor class to create an Adaptor instance and start playing around with the page. You might be slightly confused by now so let me clear things up. All fetcher-type classes are imported in the same way All of them can take these initialization arguments: auto_match, huge_tree, keep_comments, keep_cdata, storage, and storage_args, which are the same ones you give to the Adaptor class. If you don't want to pass arguments to the generated Adaptor object and want to use the default values, you can use this import instead for cleaner code: then use it right away without initializing like: Also, the Response object returned from all fetchers is the same as the Adaptor object except it has these added attributes: status, reason, cookies, headers, history, and request_headers. All cookies, headers, and request_headers are always of type dictionary. [!NOTE] The auto_match argument is enabled by default which is the one you should care about the most as you will see later. This class is built on top of httpx with additional configuration options, here you can do GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE requests. For all methods, you have stealthy_headers which makes Fetcher create and use real browser's headers then create a referer header as if this request came from Google's search of this URL's domain. It's enabled by default. You can also set the number of retries with the argument retries for all methods and this will make httpx retry requests if it failed for any reason. The default number of retries for all Fetcher methods is 3. Hence: All headers generated by stealthy_headers argument can be overwritten by you through the headers argument You can route all traffic (HTTP and HTTPS) to a proxy for any of these methods in this format http://username:password@localhost:8030 For Async requests, you will just replace the import like below: This class is built on top of Camoufox, bypassing most anti-bot protections by default. Scrapling adds extra layers of flavors and configurations to increase performance and undetectability even further. Note: all requests done by this fetcher are waiting by default for all JS to be fully loaded and executed so you don't have to :) This list isn't final so expect a lot more additions and flexibility to be added in the next versions! This class is built on top of Playwright which currently provides 4 main run options but they can be mixed as you want. Note: all requests done by this fetcher are waiting by default for all JS to be fully loaded and executed so you don't have to :) Using this Fetcher class, you can make requests with: 1) Vanilla Playwright without any modifications other than the ones you chose. 2) Stealthy Playwright with the stealth mode I wrote for it. It's still a WIP but it bypasses many online tests like Sannysoft's. Some of the things this fetcher's stealth mode does include: * Patching the CDP runtime fingerprint. * Mimics some of the real browsers' properties by injecting several JS files and using custom options. * Using custom flags on launch to hide Playwright even more and make it faster. * Generates real browser's headers of the same type and same user OS then append it to the request's headers. 3) Real browsers by passing the real_chrome argument or the CDP URL of your browser to be controlled by the Fetcher and most of the options can be enabled on it. 4) NSTBrowser's docker browserless option by passing the CDP URL and enabling nstbrowser_mode option. Hence using the real_chrome argument requires that you have Chrome browser installed on your device Add that to a lot of controlling/hiding options as you will see in the arguments list below. This list isn't final so expect a lot more additions and flexibility to be added in the next versions! If your case needs more than the element's parent, you can iterate over the whole ancestors' tree of any element like below You can search for a specific ancestor of an element that satisfies a function, all you need to do is to pass a function that takes an Adaptor object as an argument and return True if the condition satisfies or False otherwise like below: You can select elements by their text content in multiple ways, here's a full example on another website: Find all elements that are similar to the current element in location and attributes To increase the complexity a little bit, let's say we want to get all books' data using that element as a starting point for some reason The documentation will provide more advanced examples. Let's say you are scraping a page with a structure like this: And you want to scrape the first product, the one with the p1 ID. You will probably write a selector like this When website owners implement structural changes like The selector will no longer function and your code needs maintenance. That's where Scrapling's auto-matching feature comes into play. How does the auto-matching work? Check the FAQs section for that and other possible issues while auto-matching. Let's use a real website as an example and use one of the fetchers to fetch its source. To do this we need to find a website that will change its design/structure soon, take a copy of its source then wait for the website to make the change. Of course, that's nearly impossible to know unless I know the website's owner but that will make it a staged test haha. To solve this issue, I will use The Web Archive's Wayback Machine. Here is a copy of StackOverFlow's website in 2010, pretty old huh?Let's test if the automatch feature can extract the same button in the old design from 2010 and the current design using the same selector :) If I want to extract the Questions button from the old design I can use a selector like this #hmenus > div:nth-child(1) > ul > li:nth-child(1) > a This selector is too specific because it was generated by Google Chrome. Now let's test the same selector in both versions Note that I used a new argument called automatch_domain, this is because for Scrapling these are two different URLs, not the website so it isolates their data. To tell Scrapling they are the same website, we then pass the domain we want to use for saving auto-match data for them both so Scrapling doesn't isolate them. In a real-world scenario, the code will be the same except it will use the same URL for both requests so you won't need to use the automatch_domain argument. This is the closest example I can give to real-world cases so I hope it didn't confuse you :) Notes: 1. For the two examples above I used one time the Adaptor class and the second time the Fetcher class just to show you that you can create the Adaptor object by yourself if you have the source or fetch the source using any Fetcher class then it will create the Adaptor object for you. 2. Passing the auto_save argument with the auto_match argument set to False while initializing the Adaptor/Fetcher object will only result in ignoring the auto_save argument value and the following warning message text Argument `auto_save` will be ignored because `auto_match` wasn't enabled on initialization. Check docs for more info. This behavior is purely for performance reasons so the database gets created/connected only when you are planning to use the auto-matching features. Same case with the auto_match argument. Inspired by BeautifulSoup's find_all function you can find elements by using find_all/find methods. Both methods can take multiple types of filters and return all elements in the pages that all these filters apply to. So the way it works is after collecting all passed arguments and keywords, each filter passes its results to the following filter in a waterfall-like filtering system. It filters all elements in the current page/element in the following order: Note: The filtering process always starts from the first filter it finds in the filtering order above so if no tag name(s) are passed but attributes are passed, the process starts from that layer and so on. But the order in which you pass the arguments doesn't matter. Examples to clear any confusion :) Here's what else you can do with Scrapling: Saving and retrieving elements manually to auto-match them outside the css and the xpath methods but you have to set the identifier by yourself. To save an element to the database: python >>> element = page.find_by_text('Tipping the Velvet', first_match=True) >>> page.save(element, 'my_special_element') if you want to keep it as lxml.etree object, leave the adaptor_type argument python >>> page.relocate(element_dict) [<Element a at 0x105a2a7b0>] Filtering results based on a function Doing operations on element content is the same as scrapy python quote.re(r'regex_pattern') # Get all strings (TextHandlers) that match the regex pattern quote.re_first(r'regex_pattern') # Get the first string (TextHandler) only quote.json() # If the content text is jsonable, then convert it to json using `orjson` which is 10x faster than the standard json library and provides more options except that you can do more with them like python quote.re( r'regex_pattern', replace_entities=True, # Character entity references are replaced by their corresponding character clean_match=True, # This will ignore all whitespaces and consecutive spaces while matching case_sensitive= False, # Set the regex to ignore letters case while compiling it ) Hence all of these methods are methods from the TextHandler within that contains the text content so the same can be done directly if you call the .text property or equivalent selector function. Doing operations on the text content itself includes Sort all characters in the string as if it were a list and return the new string python quote.sort(reverse=False) To be clear, TextHandler is a sub-class of Python's str so all normal operations/methods that work with Python strings will work with it. Any element's attributes are not exactly a dictionary but a sub-class of mapping called AttributesHandler that's read-only so it's faster and string values returned are actually TextHandler objects so all operations above can be done on them, standard dictionary operations that don't modify the data, and more :) Scrapling is under active development so expect many more features coming soon :) There are a lot of deep details skipped here to make this as short as possible so to take a deep dive, head to the docs section. I will try to keep it updated as possible and add complex examples. There I will explain points like how to write your storage system, write spiders that don't depend on selectors at all, and more... Note that implementing your storage system can be complex as there are some strict rules such as inheriting from the same abstract class, following the singleton design pattern used in other classes, and more. So make sure to read the docs first. [!IMPORTANT] A website is needed to provide detailed library documentation. I'm trying to rush creating the website, researching new ideas, and adding more features/tests/benchmarks but time is tight with too many spinning plates between work, personal life, and working on Scrapling. I have been working on Scrapling for months for free after all. If you like Scrapling and want it to keep improving then this is a friendly reminder that you can help by supporting me through the sponsor button. This section addresses common questions about Scrapling, please read this section before opening an issue. Now because everything about the element can be changed or removed, nothing from the element can be used as a unique identifier for the database. To solve this issue, I made the storage system rely on two things: Together both are used to retrieve the element's unique properties from the database later. 4. Now later when you enable the auto_match parameter for both the Adaptor instance and the method call. The element properties are retrieved and Scrapling loops over all elements in the page and compares each one's unique properties to the unique properties we already have for this element and a score is calculated for each one. 5. Comparing elements is not exact but more about finding how similar these values are, so everything is taken into consideration, even the values' order, like the order in which the element class names were written before and the order in which the same element class names are written now. 6. The score for each element is stored in the table, and the element(s) with the highest combined similarity scores are returned. Not a big problem as it depends on your usage. The word default will be used in place of the URL field while saving the element's unique properties. So this will only be an issue if you used the same identifier later for a different website that you didn't pass the URL parameter while initializing it as well. The save process will overwrite the previous data and auto-matching uses the latest saved properties only. For each element, Scrapling will extract: - Element tag name, text, attributes (names and values), siblings (tag names only), and path (tag names only). - Element's parent tag name, attributes (names and values), and text. That's because passing the auto_save/auto_match argument without setting auto_match to True while initializing the Adaptor object will only result in ignoring the auto_save/auto_match argument value. This behavior is purely for performance reasons so the database gets created only when you are planning to use the auto-matching features. It could be one of these reasons: 1. No data were saved/stored for this element before. 2. The selector passed is not the one used while storing element data. The solution is simple - Pass the old selector again as an identifier to the method called. - Retrieve the element with the retrieve method using the old selector as identifier then save it again with the save method and the new selector as identifier. - Start using the identifier argument more often if you are planning to use every new selector from now on. 3. The website had some extreme structural changes like a new full design. If this happens a lot with this website, the solution would be to make your code as selector-free as possible using Scrapling features. Pretty much yeah, almost all features you get from BeautifulSoup can be found or achieved in Scrapling one way or another. In fact, if you see there's a feature in bs4 that is missing in Scrapling, please make a feature request from the issues tab to let me know. Of course, you can find elements by text/regex, find similar elements in a more reliable way than AutoScraper, and finally save/retrieve elements manually to use later as the model feature in AutoScraper. I have pulled all top articles about AutoScraper from Google and tested Scrapling against examples in them. In all examples, Scrapling got the same results as AutoScraper in much less time. Yes, Scrapling instances are thread-safe. Each Adaptor instance maintains its state. Everybody is invited and welcome to contribute to Scrapling. There is a lot to do! Please read the contributing file before doing anything. [!CAUTION] This library is provided for educational and research purposes only. By using this library, you agree to comply with local and international laws regarding data scraping and privacy. The authors and contributors are not responsible for any misuse of this software. This library should not be used to violate the rights of others, for unethical purposes, or to use data in an unauthorized or illegal manner. Do not use it on any website unless you have permission from the website owner or within their allowed rules like the robots.txt file, for example. This work is licensed under BSD-3 This project includes code adapted from: - Parsel (BSD License) - Used for translator submodule Copyright © KitPloit - PenTest & Hacking Tools
--------------------------------------------------

Title: PayPal kicks off fintech earnings as investors fear impact of Trump tariffs on consumer spending
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/28/fintech-earnings-focus-concerns-on-tariffs-paypal-block-affirm.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T12:00:01Z
Description: PayPal reports earnings on Tuesday, followed by Block on Thursday and Affirm next week.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 5 Things to Know Before the Stock Market Opens
URL: https://www.investopedia.com/5-things-to-know-before-the-stock-market-opens-april-28-2025-11723054
Time Published: 2025-04-28T11:52:28Z
Full Content:
U.S. stock futures are little changed as markets enter the week on a four-session winning streak and investors prepare for a crowded earnings calendar, including reports from Magnificent Seven firms Apple (AAPL), Amazon (AMZN), Microsoft (MSFT) and Meta Platforms (META); Domino's Pizza (DPZ) shares are fall in premarket trading after the company reported weaker-than-expected U.S. same-store sales; German drug giant Merck KGaA agrees to buy U.S. biotech SpringWorks Therapeutics (SWTX) for nearly $4 billion; and shares of Deliveroo soar in London trading after DoorDash (DASH) makes an offer to acquire the British food delivery service. Here's what investors need to know today. U.S. stock futures are edging lower as investors get ready for a busy week of earnings and economic data amid a four-session winning streak for the major indexes. Nasdaq futures are down 0.1% after the tech-favored index added 6.7% last week, while S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average futures also are slightly lower after gaining last week. Bitcoin (BTCUSD) is rising to trade over $95,000. Yields on the 10-year Treasury note are rising slightly. Oil futures are lower. Gold futures are little changed. More than half of the Magnificent Seven companies are scheduled to report quarterly results this week, with Apple (AAPL), Amazon (AMZN), Microsoft (MSFT) and Meta Platforms (META) all on this week's calendar. Apple's earnings on Thursday come as the iPhone maker has shed 16% of its value this year on concerns over how U.S. tariffs on China will impact the company. Also reporting on Thursday is Amazon, whose stock was recently downgraded due to its exposure to Chinese tariffs. Microsoft and Meta Platform report Wednesday, with the latter's coming as the Instagram parent faces a Federal Trade Commission antitrust court case. Shares of Domino's Pizza (DPZ) are slipping about 2.5% in premarket trading after the company reported weaker-than-expected first-quarter revenue and U.S. same-store sales. The Ann Arbor, Mich.-based company's revenue of $1.11 billion was slightly lower than the consensus of analysts polled by Visible Alpha, while its earnings per share of $4.33 came in above estimates. Same-store sales among Domino's U.S. locations fell by 0.5% year-over-year, worse than the 0.22% bump analysts had forecast. Shares of U.S. biotech SpringWorks Therapeutics (SWTX) are rising more than 3% in premarket trading after German drug company Merck KGaA said it has struck a deal to buy the firm for around $3.9 billion. Merck said it would offer $47 a share in cash for the Stamford, Conn.-based firm. That represents a 26% premium to SpringWorks' 20-day volume-weighted average price of $37.38 on Feb. 7—the day before speculation of a potential deal between the two started, Merck said. SpringWorks shares closed at $44.72 on Friday. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2025. Deliveroo shares are jumping 17% in London trading after DoorDash (DASH) offered to buy the British food delivery firm for 180 pence ($2.40) per share. Deliveroo, which said it had received an "indicative proposal" from DoorDash on April 5, added its board indicated to the U.S. company that "should a firm offer be made" at those terms, it "would be minded to recommend such an offer to Deliveroo shareholders." Shares of DoorDash are little changed in premarket trading.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Marketing has failed big booze but there’s light at the bottom of the bottle
URL: https://www.thedrum.com/opinion/2025/04/28/marketing-has-failed-big-booze-there-s-light-the-bottom-the-bottle
Time Published: 2025-04-28T10:13:00Z
Full Content:
Advertisement April 28, 2025 | 14 min read Listen to article 4 min Andrew Tindall started his marketing career with seven years in the commercial and marketing teams at Bacardi, Innocent, Brown-Forman, and Diageo. Now working in global marketing effectiveness, he reckons the drinks trade has lost its way. A still from I'd like to buy the world a Coke, where they are holding Guinness instead My marketing career began in the drinks business where I developed three bad habits: I’m a sugary juice fiend, I spend far too much time in the pub, and worst of all, I became a certified drink-marketing-wanker (DMW). We are all one or two friends removed from a DMW. You just have to learn how to spot them: All their friends work in booze marketing or behind bars. They constantly outdo each other’s cool new “hidden” bar, like a liquid cultural capital dick-measuring contest. They have WhatsApp groups to debate ad launches, innovation flops, and gossip about people moves like they actually matter to anyone outside Soho. It is the category-navel-gazing that completely screws a DMW’s objectivity so much so that they start thinking a new hard seltzer or gin launch is genuinely culturally significant. However, good DMWs recognize this and rely on customer data to make decisions instead of just pleasing their mates. I’m now three years DMW clean, having left drinks marketing to work in marketing effectiveness. Sure, I still occasionally swirl a mezcal negroni while chortling at the latest celebrity acquisition, but mostly, I’m out. After working across different categories and markets, I can confidently confirm that the drinks category isn’t what it was. I don’t take any joy in writing this. Ignore what that CSO wrote about me on the back of the toilet cubicle door at the Groucho Club; I always try to keep things positive. Yes, there are some brilliant exceptions, but we must wake up and smell the sambuca. The industry that once produced the best marketers has fallen off the wagon. Marketing has failed big-booze. Big-booze stock prices are drunkenly falling. The top houses are all more than 30% down; one is literally down 79%. Listening to industry folk trying to explain this decline quickly sorts them into four camps: The Lifer: This person holds a golden DMW card, is an expert at boardroom politics and has survived 10+ restructures. They’ll always cite “macroeconomic factors.” The Marketing Non-Believer: Considers marketing a cost and (quite rightly) points out how hard procurement teams have dropped the ball. A good example is the tequila mess, where no one could get enough agave, and now there’s a massive oversupply. Whisky planners forecasting 20 years of barrel aging into the future must be howling. The Clueless: Always the loudest. They claim culture has changed (alcohol has become less relevant), people are trading down to cheaper brands, and revenues are slumping as people leave the category for alternatives. The Minority: Understands marketing’s role, so cringes at The Clueless. Knows proper marketing keeps brands in culture, grows categories through penetration, and allows you to charge a premium. You can usually work out which group someone falls into by asking them why the Coca-Cola share price remains impervious to decline and gets Warren Buffett out of bed in the morning. Not every drink brand and business is guilty, obviously, but it’s worth pondering a few key issues. Advertisement Many spirits ads are incredibly “left-brained.” In Orlando Wood’s seminal work, the IPA books ‘Lemon’ and ‘Look out’, he showed that brands must put on a show with “right-brained” creative features to capture attention and elicit emotion from non-buyers. He was forced to name some “left brain” creative features to prove the point with data. You’ll see a lot of spirits clearly use a lot of these: vacant stares, fast cut scenes, overt voiceovers, abstracted body parts and rational product features. This style of work only speaks to the already aware and interested, and struggles to recruit lighter buyers. Elite-DMW Nick Williamson researched over 200 global booze ads and proved this in his drinks ad how-to guide: Raising The Bar. (Reach out if you want to see that.) Beyond the dependency on rational thinking, many ads from big-booze brands look, smell, and taste the same, be it grading, studios, music, sets, lens flare, and the ever-present Gen Z-esque cast. Honestly, go pick a big-booze business. Watch the latest ads from its various brands. The similarities are uncanny and hilarious. Is this procurement having too much sway? Brand managers rotating between brands? Refusal to hire non-drink marketers? I am not sure the agencies are blame-free here either. I once launched a paid Meta campaign for a whisky brand, a competitor launched something similar on Meta the week after and I shit you not: they’d picked the same music and used the same studio. Also, innovation has been replaced with chasing incremental flavors and slimming down glass bottles at the expense of distinctiveness. Or launching global travel retail “exclusives” that eventually fail and end up in the staff shop. You hear horror stories as stock prices get spicy and trousers get soiled. “We must focus on the core.” I agree; get back to brand building, not incremental flavor BS, while we wind back investment in anything that will pay back in 5+ years. Incubation and brand accelerator budgets have been slashed. And the biggest crime of all: no one has managed to arrest the endless discounting. Some of your favorite spirit brands are sold on offer in grocery 95%+ of the time. I understand grocers need their pound of flesh. I understand shelf space, joint business plans, and how you get activation space. But if you pulled that at a P&G or Unilever brand, the CMO would personally come and drag you from your desk to the front door, no matter how many times you say “revenue growth management”. Saving the largest discounts for Christmas as well is like a florist doing a deal on roses for Valentine’s Day. When did you last buy a case of beer or a bottle of spirit at full price? As one of my DMW mentors always laughs, “Why charge for it when you can give it away?” It’s hard not to rant like this when you care about the industry and brands. And you see friends losing jobs, unable to find new ones. Marketing’s role in society is to turn the wheels of commerce. It’s noble. Without exposing myself as a card-carrying capitalist too much. What really prompted me to bother writing this was re-listening to Tito’s CMO (Taylor Berry) on The CMO podcast. A rare podcast episode that I’ve found myself diving back into multiple times over the past few years. This guy really gets it. It only has six product lines (SKUs). I’ve worked on tiny, tiny brands with hundreds. Tito’s refused to jump on trends but focused on driving its brand power. It found an emotional brand platform and stuck with it over the years while still keeping it creative and interesting. This got me thinking about the green shoots we see in the industry from people who clearly get it, green shoots of marketing hope. There’s the obvious advertising and culture work coming from Guinness, maybe the less obvious, incredibly consistent ‘Do What Moves You’ Bacardi Rum campaign that gets far too little recognition for what it’s managed to do for its market share. White Claw’s creation of a global category should also be studied. The Woodsman whisky’s creation of Barry the Beaver and the results that followed, in a category determined to discuss flavor benefits, is heartwarming. 5-star work in System1’s testing and subsequent market share gobbling. Poretti’s first powerful stake in the ground with their new foxy work is also magnificent. De Kuyper’s purchase of the dormant giant Archer’s Peach Schnapps and investment in a brand refresh and new campaign to turn latent awareness into salience is poised to yield brilliant results. Honestly, Gemma Collins is exactly what this brand needs, even if the bottle refresh went a little too far. Speaking of excellent celeb use, Malibu’s new work with Brian Cox is right-brained AF. Malibu is consistently doing some interesting things to drive brand fame. It has to as rival premium coconut rums pop up left, right and centre. Cox really makes all other drinks ads (a category inherently rooted in friends, fun, and relaxation) look serious, boring, and stuffy. And AU vodka is, by some measures, the fastest growing global brand (not drink brand, brand). I can’t reference any big TV ads because it hasn’t done any. Growth has come from a genuine market orientation that birthed a garish gold bottle, a high-color high-flavor strategy (that changed the category), authentic celeb collabs, and owning where few DMWs have bothered to step foot in - a corner shop. Top-shelf vodka brands are getting shown up by a couple of mates from Swansea. But the brand that should really give us hope is the one that should be the most impressive marketing story of the past decade. Heineken’s Birra Morreti. What a champion of a brand. It's just about to overtake Peroni’s off-trade sales, off the back of the ‘Enjoy Life’s Simple Pleasures’ brand platform, which just hit the System1 database. The second highest scoring beer ad we’ve tested. Cracking work from Lucky Generals as always. It lost volume last year but managed to grow by increasing its price by 11%. You see this in about 3% of IPA case studies and 5% of WARC’s. Bloody brilliant. And its Birra Moretti Sale Di Mare (sea salt) is a great example of fluent innovation (80% familiar, 20% new). It’s not all doom and gloom. Marketers who are smashing it will raise the bar. Let’s just hope everyone gets serious and catches up before the decent ones all go and start marketing toilet roll. The minority must become the majority. Right, all this writing made me thirsty, so I went off to the pub. And not for juice. Email all your complaints about the above here. Andrew Tindall is a leading expert in creative marketing and advertising effectiveness. He currently serves as SVP of global partnerships for the creative effectiveness platform System1. With a background that bridges science and marketing, Andrew began his career in the FMCG sector, where he held roles in brand management and innovation at major companies such as Diageo and Bacardi. You can get in touch with him on LinkedIn. Read more opinion on The Drum. Marketing can change the world. © Carnyx Group Ltd 2025 | The Drum is a Registered Trademark and property of Carnyx Group Limited. All rights reserved.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Meta Earnings Preview: What To Know About The Stock Before The Upcoming Report
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/investor-hub/article/meta-stock-earnings-preview-what-to-know/
Time Published: 2025-04-28T10:00:00Z
Full Content:
ByCatherine Brock ByCatherine Brock, Contributor. More analysts view Meta's legal and macroeconomic risks as temporary problems vs. long-term issues. Meta Platforms (META) will report its first-quarter earnings on April 30, 2025. Prep for the report with this review of how the company is doing, what analysts expect and which data points will be most telling in the upcoming Meta stock earnings presentation. Year to date, Meta stock is down almost 9%. The stock reached its 2025 high of $740.91 on February 14, after announcing consensus-beating performance for the fourth quarter and then raising its dividend. As with other tech companies, the recent expansion of the U.S. tariff policy has taken a toll on Meta’s stock price. After U.S. President Donald Trump announced a sweeping set of tariffs on April 2, Meta dipped more than 13% in two trading days. Today, the stock trades for about $547 per share. Prior to this year, Meta stock had been trending up with volatility. The stock gained 67% in 2024 and 194% in 2023 on higher revenue and earnings. Earnings growth was the headlining story in both years: Diluted EPS grew 60% in 2024 and 73% in the year prior. Key components of Meta's first-quarter earnings presentation will include updates on sales, profits, user engagement, ad prices and the company's artificial intelligence (AI) initiatives. Meta has beaten analysts’ expectations for revenue and EPS for seven consecutive quarters. The company makes its money selling digital advertising across its network of apps, and demand has been strong. Earnings have benefited from cost-cutting efforts that began in 2023, a period CEO Mark Zuckerberg called the "year of efficiency." Continued strong increases in revenue and EPS demonstrate a good balance between Meta's capital-intensive growth initiatives and operational execution. Family DAP is Meta’s high-level user engagement metric. Family refers to the company's portfolio of applications: Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp. The DAP metric quantifies how many people log in and access a Meta app in a day. For a company that sells digital ads, family DAP is like inventory. When more people use Meta apps, there are more advertising impressions to sell. Not only that, but advertising demand and effectiveness can rise as the user base grows. This is because a larger user base provides more data and audience targeting options. Meta's family DAP has been increasing for years, but the pace of growth has fluctuated between 4.27% and 15.45% since 2020. In the fourth quarter of 2024, family DAP was 3.35 billion, about 5% higher than the prior-year period. Strength in ad prices indicates good demand. It signals that advertisers are generally happy with the value they’re getting for their ad investment. Alongside a rising inventory of ad impressions, this perception of value is critical for long-term growth. If ads don't deliver results, advertisers will spend their money elsewhere. Average ad price can be a tricky metric for digital advertisers. There are several huge players in this space—Google, Amazon, TikTok and Reddit, to name a few. Each is working to build its audience, which creates a continually expanding supply of advertising opportunities. Demand must grow also to keep advertising rates strong. In 2024, Meta increased its average ad price by 10%. Meta regularly reports what it spends on capital investments, including AI. Total capital expenditures in 2024 was $39.2 billion. CFO Susan Li said the company expects to spend a jaw-dropping $60 billion to $65 billion in 2025. AI represents Meta’s most compelling growth opportunity. The company is developing an open-source large language model called Llama. Morningstar reports that Llama is among the most cost-efficient LLMs available today. Additionally, if Meta can make further cost improvements, Llama has many interesting use cases—from generating effective, customized ad content for advertisers to reducing Meta's application development costs. Given Meta's investment in AI, investors want to see these use cases take shape as transformational and competition-busting business initiatives. Every global company faces macroeconomic risks. Three factors to watch for Meta are consumer spending, the U.S. regulatory environment and the ongoing U.S. trade war with China. A slowdown in consumer spending in the U.S. and globally lessens the return potential for digital advertising. Advertisers are likely to limit their advertising budgets in response. Should the U.S. or other major economies fall into recession, Meta would feel the impact as slowing or negative sales growth. Meta is currently defending an antitrust lawsuit brought forth by the Federal Trade Commission. The suit could require the company to divest Instagram and WhatsApp. Congress is also investigating whether Meta collaborated with the Chinese government at the expense of U.S. national security. How far these cases go could define Meta's future. Some outlets report that Zuckerberg has courted President Trump to alleviate his company's legal woes. Time will tell if that strategy proves effective. Wells Fargo analysts estimate that 11% of Meta's revenue comes from China-based advertisers, as quoted by Investing.com. These revenues are at risk under President Trump's new tariff policy that imposes taxes of up to 245% on imported Chinese goods. The tariff costs can be absorbed by Chinese sellers or passed on to U.S. consumers, but either strategy likely limits advertising returns. In its last earnings presentation, Meta shared a first-quarter revenue guidance range of $39.5 billion to $41.8 billion. According to Tradingview.com, analysts expect the company to produce $41.38 billion revenue, near the high end of the guidance. Analysts also expect EPS of $5.24. These numbers represent quarter-over-quarter revenue growth of 14.4% and EPS growth of 21.3%. Out of 72 analysts, 53 rate Meta a strong buy and 10 rate the company a buy. There are also seven hold ratings, one sell rating and one strong sell rating. Price targets range from $448 to $900, averaging to $710.90, which is about 30% higher than the current Meta stock price. Meta's stock price has declined in April, but this seems more related to the ongoing U.S. tariff saga than a company-specific trend. Many stocks and the S&P 500 have followed the same trajectory. Bottom Line Things to love about Meta right now are its revenue momentum, improving efficiency and exciting AI initiatives. However, the company also has some legal trouble to manage and may face short-term headwinds related to the U.S. economy and the trade war with China. These won’t impact first-quarter results, but investors should pay close attention to leadership's commentary on these topics during the earnings webcast. So far, more analysts view the legal and macroeconomic risks as temporary problems vs. long-term issues. If that's accurate, now may be the time to scoop up Meta at a good price. Otherwise, see best stocks for 2025 for more investing ideas.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: CNBC Daily Open: Countries are pivoting away from the U.S. amid Trump policies
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/28/cnbc-daily-open-countries-are-pivoting-away-from-the-us.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T06:38:29Z
Description: An “America First” policy, ironically, may encourage other countries to leave the U.S. behind, far from the pole position.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: CNBC Daily Open: Trump’s ‘America First’ might leave the U.S. behind
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/28/cnbc-daily-open-trumps-america-first-might-leave-the-us-behind-.html
Time Published: 2025-04-28T00:51:53Z
Description: An “America First” policy, ironically, may encourage other countries to leave the U.S. behind, far from the pole position.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is NICE Ltd. (NICE) One of the Best Prison and Law Enforcement Stocks to Buy According to Analysts?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/nice-ltd-nice-one-best-204842061.html
Time Published: 2025-04-27T20:48:42Z
Description: We recently published a list of 11 Best Prison and Law Enforcement Stocks to Buy According to Analysts. In this article, we are going to take a look at where...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: What Tech Workforce Changes Could Mean For Opportunistic Family Offices
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/francoisbotha/2025/04/27/what-tech-workforce-changes-could-mean-for-opportunistic-family-offices/
Time Published: 2025-04-27T17:30:12Z
Full Content:
ByFrancois Botha ByFrancois Botha, Senior Contributor. The Intel headquarters in Santa Clara could end up a ghost town if their planned "de-laboring" ends ... More up being an extensive exercise. The past week’s markets seem confused. Alphabet’s stock price went up after strong earnings, great news for investors, even while the company has significantly reduced jobs. Major tech businesses including Intel and Meta are cutting large numbers of workers. Public interest as seen in Google trends about these changes continues to rise, showing that something deeper than just cost cuts is taking place. These moves point to broader market shifts as companies put more focus on artificial intelligence and reconsider staffing and global trade issues. Family offices investing in public and private technology companies will likely pay close attention. Three critical areas now require their focus: managing investment risk, finding talented people, and discovering new business opportunities. Managing Investment Risk in an Uncertain Market Tech companies today don’t just deal with internal changes like layoffs and cost reductions. Bigger global issues such as tariffs, trade conflicts, and political challenges directly affect the companies’ costs, supply chains, and profits. Family offices, in turn, must now consider these global factors carefully. It's no longer enough to just review a company's quarterly earnings or internal plans. Tariff changes, broken supply chains, and shifting international trade rules must all factor into an investor’s planning. To manage these risks, family offices should carefully evaluate how global issues affect each business they invest in. They should also spread their investments across different markets or industries to lower overall risk and protect against unexpected events. People as Assets, Not Costs: Building Teams for the Future Recent workforce reductions at tech companies have placed many skilled professionals back onto the hiring market. For family offices, this creates fresh opportunity to hire talent for their own teams or for the businesses they support. Many family offices are now operating similarly to technology startup teams. They view finding and hiring talented people as an investment, rather than viewing employees as expenses. Skills related to cyber security, artificial intelligence, digital compliance, and data analysis have become especially valuable. To succeed, family offices must invest in training and developing their teams. They should encourage staff to expand their knowledge and skills and give employees the opportunity to learn new tasks. Family offices can also help the businesses they own in identifying and hiring people with valuable skills who might otherwise be missed. Success won't result from reacting after the fact. It requires thoughtful planning and a commitment to continually build and reshape effective, adaptable teams. Humans and Technology Working Together Recent tech industry adjustments have raised questions about the future role of workers. Many discussions revolve around which tasks humans will continue to perform and which can be handled by artificial intelligence and technology. These discussions shouldn’t focus exclusively on replacing human workers. Instead, effective solutions will involve people and technology working side by side. Human abilities such as judgment, critical thinking, and contextual understanding remain difficult for machines to handle and will remain highly important for years to come. Family offices that understand this reality will hire people whose skills complement technology. Areas such as compliance, ethical considerations, client relationships, and interpretation of data still clearly depend on human understanding. Importantly, family offices should look for team members who are flexible, eager to learn new skills, and open to evolving their roles as technology advances and market needs change. Staying Flexible in a Changing Market The recent tech sector changes signal deeper shifts than ordinary market ups and downs. Family offices risk serious disappointment when they follow trends without careful thought. Instead, successful family offices will focus on thoughtful analysis and maintain patience, remaining ready to quickly adapt to market changes. To navigate successfully, family offices should question popular assumptions and avoid investments driven by hype. They should examine each potential opportunity carefully and clearly. Those who keep an open mind, remain committed to learning, and think independently will be best suited to thrive. Opportunistic family offices can stand out by understanding market conditions thoroughly, thoughtfully building strong teams, effectively pairing human insight with technology, and preparing themselves to respond decisively to change.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: SPAS-12 History Value: Legacy and Rising Price
URL: https://www.thetruthaboutguns.com/spas-12-shotgun-history-value-ban/
Time Published: 2025-04-27T14:00:00Z
Full Content:
The SPAS-12 shotgun, with its rich history and significant value, stands as one of the most iconic firearms of its time. Known for its unique design and powerful performance, the SPAS-12’s history and value have only grown over the years, making it a prized collectible for enthusiasts. Check out our video reel showcasing the SPAS-12 in action on Facebook and Instagram: The SPAS-12 (Special Purpose Automatic Shotgun) was a combat shotgun manufactured by the Italian firearms company Franchi S.p.A. from 1979 to 2000. Initially designed as a law enforcement and military shotgun, the SPAS-12 became iconic due to its unique dual-mode action, allowing it to function as both a semi-automatic and pump-action shotgun. Its distinctive appearance, combined with a folding metal stock, heat shield, and overall aggressive design, contributed to its cult status among firearm enthusiasts, collectors, and Hollywood filmmakers alike. The SPAS-12 was unique in that it was one of the few shotguns designed with a dual-action mode, allowing the user to switch between semi-automatic and pump-action operation. The ability to cycle between these modes gave it a tactical advantage in specific scenarios. In semi-automatic mode, it could rapidly fire shells, while in pump-action mode, it could handle a broader range of ammunition, including lower-powered shells that might not cycle in a gas-operated system. Some other notable features include: Due to its versatility and intimidating appearance, the SPAS-12 was marketed toward military, law enforcement, and civilian buyers, although it was ultimately restricted in many regions due to firearm regulations. In 1994, the United States Federal Assault Weapons Ban (AWB) was enacted under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act (Public Law No. 103-322). This legislation restricted the sale and importation of certain firearms based on a set of cosmetic and functional features, rather than their actual operational capabilities. The SPAS-12, with its tactical appearance, pistol grip, and semi-automatic functionality, was classified as an “excessively lethal firearm” by proponents of the ban. Critics of the law, including firearm experts and enthusiasts, pointed out that the SPAS-12 was mechanically similar to other commonly used semi-automatic and pump-action shotguns used for hunting, skeet shooting, and home defense. Despite this, the gun’s aggressive aesthetic led it to be vilified by gun-control advocates who often lacked technical knowledge about firearms (Koper, 2004). This flawed logic exposed the major weaknesses of the ban. The legislation focused heavily on appearances rather than functionality, meaning firearms that operated identically to banned guns but looked different remained legal. The SPAS-12, for example, was essentially just a heavier, bulkier version of many legally available shotguns. The law failed to target criminal misuse of firearms, instead restricting law-abiding citizens from purchasing certain guns simply because they looked “scary.” Further demonstrating its ineffectiveness, a 2004 study funded by the U.S. Department of Justice found that the Assault Weapons Ban had no measurable impact on gun violence during its ten-year enforcement (Koper, 2004). Even the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) conducted a meta-analysis and found “insufficient evidence” that banning certain firearms reduced crime rates (Hahn et al., 2005). The sunset clause in the AWB ensured that the law would expire on September 13, 2004, unless renewed by Congress, which did not occur (Kleck, 2001). However, due to the ban’s restrictions on importation, shipments of the SPAS-12 to the United States ended in 1994, with Franchi ultimately ceasing production of the model in 2000. Ironically, instead of reducing access to “dangerous weapons,” the ban fueled demand for firearms like the SPAS-12, driving up prices and making them more desirable to collectors. Today, the SPAS-12 remains a sought-after collectible, proving that cosmetic bans do little more than inconvenience lawful gun owners while failing to address actual crime. The SPAS-12 gained legendary status not only among firearm collectors but also in Hollywood and video games. It was famously wielded by Arnold Schwarzenegger’s T-800 in The Terminator (1984), reinforcing its image as a formidable weapon. Additionally, Robert Muldoon, the game warden in Jurassic Park (1993), carried a SPAS-12 while facing off against velociraptors. The gun also became a staple in the gaming world, appearing in franchises such as: This widespread representation cemented the SPAS-12’s place in pop culture, making it one of the most recognizable shotguns ever produced. Many firearm enthusiasts consider the SPAS-12 to be a “grail gun”, meaning it is a highly desirable and rare firearm in the collecting community. The limited availability and cultural significance of the SPAS-12 have led to a massive increase in its market value. When the shotgun was still in production, its retail price in the United States was approximately $1,500 in its final year of availability. By 2016, auction prices for the SPAS-12 had climbed to an average of $2,588 (Rock Island Auction, 2016). The value increase continued at an unprecedented rate, and by 2022, the price of an SPAS-12 at auction had skyrocketed to an average of $7,000. As of 2025, the SPAS-12 remains one of the hottest collectibles in the firearms market, with some pristine examples exceeding $10,000 at auction. This dramatic price surge outpaces many other classic firearms and highlights the enduring demand for rare and historically significant tactical shotguns (Miller, 2023). References Max Tactical Firearms, LLC is a licensed FFL and SOT dealer offering a broad range of products for beginners to expert firearms enthusiasts. With an extensive online store featuring over 40,000+ products from more than 500+ brands, you’ll find everything from firearms and archery to hunting, camping, survival gear, optics, and more. Max Tactical Firearms, LLC also specializes in NFA items, including suppressors, SBRs, and other Class III firearms, and they ship regulated orders to FFLs nationwide while also accepting transfers. Additionally, they offer custom heirloom-grade display cases and handcrafted leather goods built to last. The Benelli M2 also has the option to switch between semi-auto and pump, though the semi action is inertia blowback instead of gas-operated. That makes the cycling unreliable when the M2 isn’t fully shouldered/supported (like when firing from the hip). Similar to “limp-wristing” a Glock. I remember those things. The joke at time was that it was called SPAS because a spase is what it is. (Slang at the time among teens for another kid that was socially awkward.) Never owned one, but I did own a Benelli M3 Super 90. Pump/auto. Neither fish nor fowl. Hated it. Disposed of it at the first gun show I could. Liked all the M1 Super 90s I owned. Let’s see 1500 in 2000 money adjusted for inflation to 2025 would be 2,785 so 2016 probably would have been the last reasonable price. RE: “Critics of the law, including firearm experts and enthusiasts, pointed out that the SPAS-12 was mechanically similar to other commonly used semi-automatic and pump-action shotguns used for hunting, skeet shooting, and home defense. Despite this, the gun’s aggressive aesthetic led it to be vilified by gun-control advocates who often lacked technical knowledge about firearms (Koper, 2004).” The old piss poor sporting purpose defense of the 2A all while not defining Gun Control by its History…how dare we embarrass our Gun Control colleagues. The Founders and millions of defenseless victims of Gun Control were rolling over in their graves. Thankfully Bush II let the clinton/biden Gun Control insanity sunset. As for Franchi they produce nice shotguns. I own one since 1996. There are easier shotguns to use in pump action and reload, but when you start shooting it fast in semiauto, the muzzle rise is minimal. Also the recoil is… tame. That thing shoots fast and straight. I love it, and after many thousands of rounds, tens of thousands, it still goes as new. Top!!! “Robust build”? Except for those parts made from plastic which are getting brittle with age. Plastic doesn’t get brittle. I’ve a pair of Glocks made in 1851 and they’re still as robust as they were when Wild Bill Hickok was using them. I forgot to say. $10,000 for one of these things? What do they say about a fool and his money? This is not a three digit serial number, first generation Colt SAA calvary model. Scarcity is a bitch, see also Colt python pre2020, s&w pre lock, pre freedom group Marlin lever rifles for silliness at the low end. Could probably throw in Kimber for pre mim parts Safe, I understand. I have a 6″ stainless Python that I bought for myself as a present to myself when I got out of the U. S. Army. A long time ago. I can touch a 6 1/2″ 2nd model hand ejector target.44 Spl and a S&W 28 Highway Patrolman now. Everyone says they’re worth a lot more than I paid for them. Good. But a SPAS? No accounting for collectors, still at a loss to explain the $500+ pricing for Nagant rifles. Supply shortage caused by the war in Ukraine? Many have been spotted being used in the conflict. The market will achieve equilibrium. If they were still in production and not disappearing on a battlefield where they will never get to the US sure. Realistically it will be a long time of a lot of estate sales allowing them to trickle back into the market that has enough other desirable products to see any reasonable drop in prices for milsurp of any kind…….. except maybe m1 carbines we may eventually get some of those back in large numbers. The first thing that comes to my mind when I see this gun is “Clever girl”. Unfortunately, it’s not a shining moment for the gun. Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ The Truth About Guns provides news, reviews, and insights to help you stay informed on the latest trends in gun culture, legislation, and industry developments.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: US stock market predictions: S&P 500, Dow Jones Nasdaq look to rise further; All eyes on Apple, Microsoft
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/us-stock-market-predictions-sp-500-dow-jones-nasdaq-look-to-rise-further-all-eyes-on-apple-microsoft/articleshow/120668480.cms
Time Published: 2025-04-27T12:52:37Z
Full Content:
#Pahalgam Terrorist Attack India stares at a 'water bomb' threat as it freezes Indus Treaty India readies short, mid & long-term Indus River plans Shehbaz Sharif calls India's stand "worn-out narrative" (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. (Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates. How Pahalgam attack may knock the wind out of Kashmir air travel Battery bets: 4 chemical stocks tapping into the EV gold rush Relief or more pain? The hidden reality of tariff pause that supply chain is facing How the BluSmart fiasco puts BP Ventures in a bind How to make money from the markets 2.0: Track the government. A nerd’s mission: End addiction in Kerala with digital currency Pahalgam attack: They can’t kill Indians with impunity, says Tharoor Deadly car attack in Vancouver PM's strong message over Pahalgam attack Trump dominates Canada election 2025 Trump demands free transit through Panama Trump skips WH Correspondents’ Dinner again ICE arrests nearly 800 illegal aliens in Florida Chaos erupts in Wisconsin after FBI arrests judge Trump blasts Putin after key meet with Zelenskyy Trump, Zelenskyy come ‘face-to-face’ after WH spat Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Commodities Top Slideshow Top Prime Articles Private Companies Top Story Listing Top Definitions Top Market Pages Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: April jobs report, Big Tech earnings in focus amid stock market recovery: What to know this week
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/april-jobs-report-big-tech-earnings-in-focus-amid-stock-market-recovery-what-to-know-this-week-113503429.html
Time Published: 2025-04-27T11:35:03Z
Description: With the stock market in all-out rally mode for the first time since President Trump's tariff announcements, key updates on the health of the US economy and ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Meta Platforms, Inc. (META): Among the Best Safe Stocks to Buy According to Hedge Funds
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/meta-platforms-inc-meta-among-210409091.html
Time Published: 2025-04-26T21:04:09Z
Description: We recently published a list of 11 Best Safe Stocks to Buy According to Hedge Funds. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Meta Platforms...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Meta Platforms (NasdaqGS:META) Collaborates With Booz Allen To Pioneer AI-Powered Space Tech
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/meta-platforms-nasdaqgs-meta-collaborates-172612879.html
Time Published: 2025-04-26T17:26:12Z
Description: Meta Platforms (NasdaqGS:META) experienced a notable price move of 9%, significantly outpacing the broader market's 5% gain over the same period. This upward...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: INVESTOR ALERT: Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Investigates Claims on Behalf of Investors of AppLovin
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/04/26/3068739/683/en/INVESTOR-ALERT-Faruqi-Faruqi-LLP-Investigates-Claims-on-Behalf-of-Investors-of-AppLovin.html
Time Published: 2025-04-26T14:48:00Z
Full Content:
April 26, 2025 10:48 ET | Source: Faruqi & Faruqi LLP Faruqi & Faruqi LLP Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses In AppLovin To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If you purchased or acquired securities in AppLovin between May 10, 2023 to March 26, 2025 and would like to discuss your legal rights, call Faruqi & Faruqi partner Josh Wilson directly at 877-247-4292 or 212-983-9330 (Ext. 1310). [You may also click here for additional information] NEW YORK, April 26, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, a leading national securities law firm, is investigating potential claims against AppLovin Corporation (“AppLovin” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: APP) and reminds investors of the May 5, 2025 deadline to seek the role of lead plaintiff in a federal securities class action that has been filed against the Company. Faruqi & Faruqi is a leading national securities law firm with offices in New York, Pennsylvania, California and Georgia. The firm has recovered hundreds of millions of dollars for investors since its founding in 1995. See www.faruqilaw.com. As detailed below, the complaint alleges that the Company and its executives violated federal securities laws by making false and/or misleading statements and/or failing to disclose that defendants provided investors with material information concerning AppLovin’s financial growth and stability. Defendants’ statements included, among other things, confidence in AppLovin’s launch of its AXON 2.0 digital ad platform and using “cutting-edge AI technologies” to more efficiently match advertisements to mobile games, in addition to expanding into web-based marketing and e-commerce. Moreover, defendants publicly reported impressive financial results, outlooks, and guidance to investors, all while using dishonest advertising practices. The truth emerged on February 26, 2025, when analyst research reports emerged stating that AppLovin was reverse engineering and exploiting advertising data from Meta Platforms. The reports further alleged AppLovin was utilizing manipulative practices to artificially inglate their own ad click-through and app download rates, such as by having ads click on themselves or utilizing design gimmicks to trigger forced shadow downloads, erroneously inflating installation numbers and, in turn, its profit figures. Following this news, the price of AppLovin’s stock declined from $377.06 per share on February 25, 2025 to $331.00 per share on February 26, 2025. Then, on March 26, 2025, Muddy Waters Research published a report (the “Muddy Waters Report”) concluding that AppLovin systematically used proprietary third-party data in ways that violated the terms of service of Facebook, Google, Snap, Reddit, as well as other platforms, potentially leading to backlash and service blocking and threatening the sustainability of AppLovin’s revenue growth. On this news, AppLovin’s stock price plummeted 20.1 percent, dropping from $327.62 to $261.70 per share on March 27, 2025. The court-appointed lead plaintiff is the investor with the largest financial interest in the relief sought by the class who is adequate and typical of class members who directs and oversees the litigation on behalf of the putative class. Any member of the putative class may move the Court to serve as lead plaintiff through counsel of their choice, or may choose to do nothing and remain an absent class member. Your ability to share in any recovery is not affected by the decision to serve as a lead plaintiff or not. Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP also encourages anyone with information regarding AppLovin’s conduct to contact the firm, including whistleblowers, former employees, shareholders and others. To learn more about the AppLovin class action, go to www.faruqilaw.com/APP or call Faruqi & Faruqi partner Josh Wilson directly at 877-247-4292 or 212-983-9330 (Ext. 1310). Follow us for updates on LinkedIn, on X, or on Facebook. Attorney Advertising. The law firm responsible for this advertisement is Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP (www.faruqilaw.com). Prior results do not guarantee or predict a similar outcome with respect to any future matter. We welcome the opportunity to discuss your particular case. All communications will be treated in a confidential manner. A photo accompanying this announcement is available at https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4c96193e-9e8a-4e5d-878a-3e41b441e24a Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Exceeding $100,000 In Ibotta To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If... Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Securities Litigation Partner James (Josh) Wilson Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Exceeding $75,000 In Zenas To Contact Him Directly To Discuss Their Options If you...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 9 Pieces of Advice for a Retired Doctor
URL: https://www.whitecoatinvestor.com/retired-doctor-advice/
Time Published: 2025-04-26T06:30:56Z
Description: Let's take a look at the case of a 74-year-old retired physician who wants to give money away but is worried about running out of assets.
The post 9 Pieces of Advice for a Retired Doctor appeared first on The White Coat Investor - Investing & Personal Finance…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Wall Street Week Ahead: Big tech earnings, US jobs data highlight busy week for markets
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/wall-street-week-ahead-big-tech-earnings-us-jobs-data-highlight-busy-week-for-markets/articleshow/120636880.cms
Time Published: 2025-04-26T04:31:45Z
Full Content:
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .) Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today. Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price (What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .) Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today. Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price How this South Delhi five-star was steeply undervalued to win a favorable deal from lenders Is IndusInd Bank crisis similar to that of Yes Bank, Lakshmi Vilas? Ather IPO crawls through, but behind the numbers there’s a tale of twists and turns More pain to supply chains as US-China trade starts shrinking Stock Radar: Fast & Furious! 40% rally since April low makes Redington an attractive momentum buy – check target, stop loss For medium-term investors with appetite for ‘time risk’: 6 small-cap stocks from different sectors with upside potential up to 37% All Mutual Funds Top Tax Saving Mutual Funds Better Than Fixed Deposits Low Cost High Return Funds Best Hybrid Funds Best Large Cap Funds SIP’s starting Rs. 500 Top Performing Mid Caps Promising Multi Cap Funds Top Rated Funds Top Performing Index Funds Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Searched Companies Top Calculators Top Definitions Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Private Companies Top Commodities Top Prime Articles Top Market Pages Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Worry not. You’re just a step away. It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits. Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then ₹ 1749 for 1 year Special Offer Get flat 40% off on ETPrime 90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you Stories you might be interested in
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Economic Digest: Nepal’s Business News in a Snap
URL: https://english.khabarhub.com/2025/26/461412/
Time Published: 2025-04-26T02:15:42Z
Full Content:
26 April 2025 Time taken to read : 12 Minute KATHMANDU: Economic Digest offers a concise yet comprehensive overview of significant business happenings in Nepal, presented in easily digestible summaries. The compiled reports reflect a broad spectrum of Nepal’s economic and governance dynamics, highlighting issues of regulatory enforcement, infrastructure development, and investment patterns. While NEPSE saw a minor rebound after days of decline, gold prices fell by NPR 1,000 per tola, and consumers continue to bear inflated petroleum costs despite a global price slump—benefiting Nepal Oil Corporation’s profit margins. Regulatory tightening was evident with Nepal Rastra Bank penalizing financial institutions and the Insurance Authority revising foreign employment fund rules. Simultaneously, Facebook faces a registration ultimatum, while Durga Prasai’s multi-billion-rupee loan default case underscores growing scrutiny of corporate misconduct. On the legislative front, the government introduced a bill restricting Everest climbs without prior experience and restructured taxi service standards. Meanwhile, infrastructure remains a mixed picture—rapid bridge construction in Saptari contrasts with chronic delays in Achham and Bajura. In trade and investment, local goods from Humla found markets in China, and Koshi Province reached out to Indian investors. Similarly, the NRNA Australia pledged investment interest, pending a friendlier climate. Despite having sufficient domestic production, the government controversially approved areca nut imports, raising questions about policy priorities. Other highlights include Sun Nepal Life’s rights share issuance, a capped agriculture budget amid high provincial demands, and calls to upgrade critical road segments affecting tourism. Despite global political shifts, MCC aid to Nepal remains intact, reinforcing continued strategic ties with the U.S. Nepse sees minor uptick after consecutive losses The Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) index recorded a slight rise of 2.08 points (0.07%) on the final trading day of the week, closing at 2,658.02. After four days of steady decline, Thursday saw a mild recovery driven by increased investor activity. Out of the traded companies, shares of 83 firms rose, 161 declined, and one remained unchanged. While most sector indices dropped, the trade index climbed by 17.72 points, hydropower rose by 7.73 points, and investment increased by 2.81 points. Gold prices dropped to NPR 189,600 per tola on Friday, down from NPR 190,600 the previous day, according to the Federation of Nepal Gold and Silver Dealers’ Association. Silver prices held steady at NPR 2,000 per tola. On the global market, gold was trading at approximately USD 3,325 per ounce. Despite a 23.53% decline in international crude oil prices since the start of this fiscal year, the Nepal Oil Corporation has passed on minimal price reductions to consumers while posting profits of NPR 9 billion. Petrol prices have dropped by only 6.43%, while diesel, kerosene, and aviation fuel were reduced by 8.75%. The price of cooking gas has remained unchanged. MCC assistance to Nepal unaffected by U.S. political shifts Despite the re-election of Donald Trump and changes in U.S. foreign policy, the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) will continue its support to Nepal. According to Reuters, the Trump administration, under close ally Elon Musk, has ordered the suspension of MCC programs in most countries, except for Nepal and three others. Trump has questioned the effectiveness of such aid programs, arguing against the misuse of American taxpayer funds. Minister for Communication and Information Technology, Prithvi Subba Gurung, has issued a one-week ultimatum to Meta (Facebook’s parent company) to register in Nepal. Speaking at a program organized by the National Information Commission, he warned that failure to register would result in a ban. The minister emphasized that Meta earns substantial revenue from Nepal and must comply with tax and regulatory obligations, stating that no foreign corporation can be allowed to bypass national laws. Since the Mothihari-Amlekhganj petroleum pipeline came into operation six years ago, over 57 million kiloliters (5.71 billion liters) of diesel have been imported into Nepal. The Madhesh Regional Office of Nepal Oil Corporation reports that between 1,353 to 3,568 kiloliters are imported daily. In the first nine months of the current fiscal year alone, the import volume reached 851,338 kiloliters, with daily imports averaging 2,840 kiloliters in the last fiscal year. The Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has taken disciplinary action against five financial institutions for breaching banking norms. These include three development banks—Mukti Nath, Narayani, and Salpa—and two finance companies—Janaki and Pokhara Finance. Among the violations, Mukti Nath’s chairman Bharat Raj Dhakal was found involved in unauthorized construction activities, leading NRB to issue an official warning. For the next fiscal year, the Ministry of Agriculture has capped the budget for new agricultural projects at NPR 1 billion across provincial and local levels. However, proposals from these governments have already exceeded NPR 30 billion. Minister Ramnath Adhikari stated that this ceiling includes funding for rural roads, markets, livestock programs, organic fertilizers, and crop improvement. The Non-Resident Nepali Association (NRNA) of Australia has expressed its intention to increase investments in Nepal. In a meeting with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, NRNA Australia president Anil Pokhrel emphasized the desire of the Australian NRN community to invest more, provided Nepal ensures an investor-friendly environment. Discussions also included strengthening trade and economic ties, leveraging the investment framework, and enhancing bilateral cooperation between the two countries. The Nepal Insurance Authority has made a second amendment to the regulations governing the Foreign Employment Group Insurance Fund (PUL). Under the new rule, insurance companies must deposit premium records from the 1st to 15th of each month into the designated bank account by the 1st of the following month. Similar requirements apply to the second half of the month. Insurance companies must also submit details of claims and premium receipts to the fund manager, who must confirm the transactions. The Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport has introduced new national standards for taxi services under the “National Standards for Vehicles Used as Taxis 2081,” replacing those of 2076. The updated classification divides taxis into three categories—Ordinary, Deluxe, and Luxury—based on features like size, performance, and amenities. These rules apply to all taxis, including existing and newly registered ones. A proposed provision in the new Tourism Bill 2081 bars individuals from attempting Mount Everest unless they have previously summited a 7,000-meter Himalayan peak. The bill, registered in the National Assembly by the Ministry of Culture, Tourism, and Civil Aviation, also requires climbers to submit health certificates. Those deemed medically unfit will be barred from mountaineering or joining climbing teams. This bill will replace the Tourism Act of 2035 B.S. At the Nepal-India Partnership Summit held in Purnia, Bihar, the Koshi Province Committee of the Nepal-India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (NICCI) encouraged Indian investors to consider projects in the province. Committee president Mukesh Upadhyay highlighted investment potential in tourism, agriculture, and other sectors. The event was held in collaboration with organizations like the Sub-Himalayan Research Institute and the Nepal-India Centre. Sun Nepal Life Insurance Company is set to issue 27% rights shares, totaling 10,696,320 shares at NPR 100 per share. The total value of the issue is NPR 1.07 billion. Shareholders recorded by Baishakh 4 are eligible to apply during the open window from Baishakh 30 to Jestha 19. Nepal SBI Merchant Banking is managing the rights issuance. The Gandaki chapter of the Hotel Association Nepal (HAN) has urged the government to expedite improvements along the Narayanghat-Butwal section of the East-West Highway. Chairman Hariprasad Sharma Gaire stated that delays in upgrading the road have caused significant hardship for both tourists and locals, with ongoing dust and mud making travel unpleasant. The government has permitted the import of over 11,000 tons of areca nut for the next six months, even though local production—estimated at 14,500 tons annually—is sufficient. Critics argue that the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Supplies yielded to pressure from interest groups, especially after scrapping the import quota system last month. Six bridges have been completed in Saptari within the first nine months of the current fiscal year, and seven others are nearing completion, according to the Lahan Road Division Office. Chief Ashutosh Karna said that while load testing remains pending, these efforts aim to expand road infrastructure in the district. Notable projects include bridges on the Ghode Daha River and along the Rajbiraj-Chhinnamasta road. Despite allocating NPR 3.57 billion for 13 road projects in Achham and Bajura, delays persist across 14 out of 19 contracts awarded by the Infrastructure Development Office. Among these, two are designated as provincial pride projects. So far, NPR 1.89 billion has been spent, with NPR 573 million allocated for the current year. Deadline extensions have not resolved construction delays. Local producers in Humla have successfully exported traditional food products to Taklakot, China, under a cross-border trade agreement. Mukunda Rokaya, an entrepreneur from Simkot Municipality-6, reported that the initial shipment—featuring millet and buckwheat flour, walnut oil, and more—generated NPR 1.8 million in revenue. Controversial businessman and healthcare entrepreneur Durga Prasai is being investigated for loan defaults totaling over NPR 7 billion, related to three of his projects. Previously known for leading anti-loan repayment protests, Prasai now faces allegations of threatening bank officials, including a former NRB governor. He has been taken into police custody as investigations continue. Publish Date : 26 April 2025 08:42 AM SUNKOSHI: Minister for Water Supply Pradeep Yadav has stated that KATHMANDU: Tensions flared at a program organized by the Nepal In a striking twist of irony, the very digital surveillance KATHMANDU: Former President Bidya Devi Bhandari has emphasized the vital BIRATNAGAR: Prime Minister (PM) KP Oli has reiterated that there Reg No.: 1222/075-76(DOI, Nepal) Chairman: Naresh Shrestha Address: Yak & Yeti Marg, Ktm Contact: +977 1-4249158 Email: [email protected] ©2025 Khabarhub | All rights reserved.
--------------------------------------------------