List of news related to Merck & Co stock price MRK:

Title: Betting on More Rate Cuts, Boomers Are Buying the 2026 Small Dogs of the Dow
URL: https://247wallst.com/investing/2026/01/09/betting-on-lower-rates-in-2026-boomers-are-buying-the-small-dogs-of-the-dow/
Time Published: 2026-01-09T14:13:32Z
Full Content:
Investing A change at the top of the Federal Reserve could pave the way for more rate cuts in 2026. After three rate cuts in 2025, investors could see two more in 2026. Quality high-yield companies like the Small Dogs of the Dow could rule in 2026. Sending You to Google News in 3 © marekuliasz / iStock via Getty Images The Dogs of the Dow is a well-known strategy first published in 1991 by Michael O’Higgins. The plan aims to maximize investment returns by purchasing the 10 highest-yielding dividend stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average each year. The highest-yielding stocks are also the lowest-priced stocks in the venerable average, as the lower a stock (or bond) is priced, the higher the attached yield or coupon becomes. Since the turn of the century, the Dogs of the Dow have outperformed the overall Dow, and the Small Dogs of the Dow, which are the five highest-yielding stocks, even more so. The fact that investors are buying the highest-yielding companies in the venerable index improves the chances for total return gains. From 2000 through the early 2020s, the Dogs strategy posted strong average annual returns, generally beating the Dow by a few percentage points over the entire period. The plan is not foolproof; it struggled during the dot-com bust (early 2000s) and the tech-driven growth surge post-pandemic (2020 to 2021), when growth stocks soared, and value stocks lagged. They also lagged in 2025 as the AI-driven rally continued for the third straight year. The Dogs often shine in tough markets (like 2008 or 2022), protecting investor capital much better than the broader market by holding stable, high-yielding blue-chip companies. This makes them an excellent choice for Baby Boomers seeking safety and passive income. While the AI/data center rally has pushed stocks and indices to all-time highs, and it could still be a force in 2026, the reality is that the stock market, as measured by the S&P 500, is expensive. It trades at 31 times trailing earnings and 24 times forward earnings. With the midterm elections on the way this year, investors can expect some heightened volatility. So, the Small Dogs may be the perfect play for 2026 for growth and income investors wary of a major sell-off. alexei_tm / iStock via Getty Images Dividend stocks like the Small Dogs of the Dow offer investors a reliable source of passive income. Passive income is characterized by its ability to generate revenue without requiring the earner’s continuous active effort, making it a desirable financial strategy for those seeking to diversify their income streams or achieve financial independence. The following are the Small Dogs of the Dow. Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ) is an American multinational telecommunications company that continues to offer tremendous value. It trades at 9.13 times its estimated 2026 earnings and pays a 6.72% dividend. Verizon provides a range of communications, technology, information, and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses, and government entities worldwide. Verizon’s trailing 12-month interest coverage ratio is 4.6× to 5.0×, providing ample cushion for dividend payments. With a very predictable revenue stream from telecom services, the company has less exposure to commodity cycles. In addition, the large scale helps in financing and absorbing shocks. It operates in two segments: The Consumer segment provides wireless services across the United States through Verizon and TracFone networks, as well as through wholesale and other arrangements. It also provides fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband through its wireless networks and related equipment and devices, such as: The segment also offers wireline services in the Mid-Atlantic and northeastern United States through its fiber-optic network, Verizon Fios product portfolio, and copper-based network. The Business segment provides wireless and wireline communications services and products, including: Network access services to deliver various IoT services and products to businesses, government customers, and wireless and wireline carriers in the United States and internationally. TD Cowen has a Buy rating and a $51 price target on the stock. This American multinational energy company, primarily focused on oil and gas, is a safer option for investors looking to position themselves in the energy sector. Chevron Corp. (NYSE: CVX) pays a substantial 4.34% dividend, which it raised by 5% earlier this year. This integrated giant operates energy and chemicals businesses worldwide and offers investors excellent credit ratings (AA), diversified operations, strong margins, and a long history of paying and raising dividends yearly. Its Upstream segment is involved in the following: The Downstream segment engages in: It also involves cash management, debt financing, insurance operations, real estate, and technology businesses. Chevron announced in late 2023 that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Hess Corp. (NYSE: HES) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Hess in an all-stock transaction valued at $53 billion. The transaction’s total enterprise value, including debt, is $60 billion. The deal closed last July, providing a solid boost to Chevron’s third-quarter earnings, which exceeded analysts’ expectations. Wells Fargo has an Overweight rating with a huge $196 target price. Merck & Co. Inc. (NYSE: MRK) develops and produces medicines, vaccines, biological therapies, and animal health products. It is not just a healthcare company but a global force in the industry. This healthcare giant is a no-brainer, down over 30% over the past year while paying a solid 3.02% dividend. The company operates through two segments. The Pharmaceutical segment offers human health pharmaceutical products in: The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures, and markets veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines, health management solutions and services, as well as digitally connected identification, traceability, and monitoring products. Merck serves: Merck’s growth is a result of its efforts and strategic collaborations. The company works with AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eisai, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, and Gilead Sciences to jointly develop and commercialize long-acting HIV treatments, demonstrating a commitment to innovation and growth. BMO Capital Markets’ target price for the Outperform-rated shares is a massive $130. Procter & Gamble Co. (NYSE: PG) was founded more than 185 years ago as a soap-and-candle company. It has paid dividends to shareholders since 1891, raised them for 70 straight years, and currently has a 2.95% dividend yield. The company focuses on providing branded consumer packaged goods worldwide. Segments include: The company’s products are sold in approximately 180 countries and territories primarily through mass merchandisers, e-commerce, including social commerce channels, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, distributors, wholesalers, specialty beauty stores, including airport duty-free stores, high-frequency stores, pharmacies, electronics stores, and professional channels. It also sells directly to individual consumers. It has operations in approximately 70 countries. Procter & Gamble offers products under such brands as: Jefferies has a Buy rating with a $179 target price. Amgen Inc. (NASDAQ: AMGN) discovers, develops, manufactures, and delivers human therapeutics worldwide. This biotech giant remains a top stock for investors to buy, offering a safer investment with a 2.75% dividend yield to capitalize on the massive growth potential of biosimilars. Amgen focuses on: The company’s products include: HSBC has a huge $425 target price and a Buy rating. Our Top 2026 Passive Income Ultra-High-Yield Picks With Up to 10% Dividends. Our top personal finance-related articles today. Your wallet will thank you later. Dependable recurring dividends from quality, high-yield stocks are a recipe for success. Here are four top passive income dividend stocks… These four familiar stocks are perfect ideas for growth and income investors seeking reliable dividends, passive income, and some growth… Since the turn of the century, the Dogs of the Dow have significantly outperformed the overall market. These five are… Three of the highest-yielding Dogs of the Dow are some of the top companies in the healthcare sector, and all… For Baby Boomers seeking retirement income, "safe" high-yield dividend stocks like these can be a good idea. Here are 24/7 Wall St.'s five favorite high-yield dividend stocks with which to start an investing portfolio. These five high-yield value stocks from Warren Buffett's "secret portfolio" offer investors a reliable source of passive income. These five well-run companies with stocks that yield at least 5% have strong dividend coverage and look like timely buys… After a career that spanned two decades of experience at Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Morgan Stanley, I gained an…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Wells Fargo Adds Merck (MRK) to Q1 2026 Tactical List Ahead of Key Catalysts
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/wells-fargo-adds-merck-mrk-233244380.html
Time Published: 2026-01-08T23:32:44Z
Description: Merck & Co., Inc. (NYSE:MRK) is included among the 12 Best DOW Stocks to Buy in 2026. On January 5, Wells Fargo added Merck & Co., Inc. (NYSE:MRK) to its Q1 ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Bank of America Out With Q1 2026 Top US Ideas Dividend Picks
URL: https://247wallst.com/investing/2026/01/07/bank-of-america-out-with-q1-2026-top-u-s-ideas-dividend-picks/
Time Published: 2026-01-07T13:20:14Z
Full Content:
Investing After three years of double-digit gains for the S&P 500, many feel that 2026 could slow down some. With interest rates likely to move lower later in 2026, buying quality dividend stocks now makes sense. Quality dividend stocks can also be a hedge against a likely correction in 2026. Sending You to Google News in 3 © Bank of America (CC BY 2.0) by Mike Mozart BofA Securities is the investment banking and capital markets division of Bank of America, one of the largest financial institutions in the United States. The division provides a comprehensive range of services, including equity and debt underwriting, mergers and acquisitions advisory, sales and trading, research, and capital markets solutions to corporate, institutional, and government clients worldwide. As a major player on Wall Street, BofA Securities competes with other bulge-bracket investment banks and maintains a significant market share across various financial services sectors. For the past 15 years, we have covered BofA Securities’ rotating quarterly stock picks, which typically include nine Buy-rated long ideas and one Underperform-rated (short-sell) recommendation. We then screen the list looking for the stocks that are also solid dividend ideas. To kick off 2026, we highlight five top stocks on the list, some with old-school credentials, that are perfect for growth and income investors seeking dependable passive income from reliable companies. MicroStockHub / iStock via Getty Images BofA Securities is one of the top firms on Wall Street, and we have covered the company’s curated stock lists and the quarterly Best Ideas list for years. These are the highest-rated companies across multiple categories, and the firm’s top equity analysts have thoroughly vetted all the stock picks. With healthcare in focus due to an aging population, Cigna Group (NYSE: CI) is a solid idea with a dependable 2.14% dividend. This global health company has two growth platforms: Evernorth Health Services includes its Pharmacy Benefit Services and Specialty and Care Services operating segments, which provide independent and coordinated health solutions and capabilities to enable the healthcare system to work better and help people live richer, healthier lives. Cigna Healthcare includes the U.S. Healthcare and International Health operating segments, which provide comprehensive medical plan services and coordinated solutions to clients and customers. The company’s Other Operations include corporate-owned life insurance (COLI), the company’s run-off operations, and other non-strategic businesses. The Specialty and Care Services segment provides specialty drugs for the treatment of complex and rare diseases, specialty distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, and clinical programs to help its clients. Bank of America’s target price for the stock is $378. With energy demand skyrocketing, this is a timely idea and a way to play the AI/data center trade and pick up a small 0.42% dividend. Constellation Energy Corp. (NYSE: CEG) is a producer of emissions-free energy and an energy supplier to businesses, homes, and public sector customers nationwide. The company’s nuclear, hydro, wind, and solar generation facilities have a generating capacity equivalent to powering 16 million homes and provide about 10% of the nation’s clean energy. Its segments include: Through its integrated business operations, it sells electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related products and sustainable solutions to various types of customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, public-sector, and residential customers across multiple geographic regions. Its nuclear fleet has a generating capacity of approximately 22 gigawatts (GWs). It operates approximately 10 GW of natural gas, oil, hydroelectric, wind, and solar generation assets. Bank of America has a $407 target price. With affordability a hot topic recently, this could be the perfect retail idea for 2026, with 1.74% dividend. Dollar General Corp. (NYSE: DG) is a discount retailer. The company offers merchandise, including: Its merchandise includes brands from manufacturers, as well as its own private brand selections, with prices discounted from the brands. Dollar General’s consumables category includes paper and cleaning products, packaged food, perishables, snacks, health and beauty products, pet products, and tobacco products. The seasonal products include holiday items, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive, and home office supplies. Its home products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies, and kitchen, bed, and bath soft goods. The company’s apparel products include basic items for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women, and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes, and accessories. Bank of America has a $160 target price. If you are looking for a data center trade, this is one of the biggest and best-established players, and it has a solid 2.38% dividend. Equinix Inc. (NASDAQ: EQIX) is a digital infrastructure company. The company’s platform, Equinix, combines a global footprint of International Business Exchange (IBX) and xScale data centers in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), interconnection solutions, digital offerings, business and digital ecosystems, and consulting and support. It offers a variety of enabling solutions that support a customer’s need to implement, operate, and maintain its colocated deployments. Its solutions include: Equinix SmartView is a fully integrated monitoring software that provides customers with visibility into the operating data relevant to their specific Equinix footprint. Its interconnection solutions connect businesses directly within and between its data centers across its global platform. Its interconnection solutions include: The price target at Bank of America is $950. Merck & Co. Inc. (NYSE: MRK) develops and produces medicines, vaccines, biological therapies, and animal health products. It is not just a healthcare company but a global force in the industry. This healthcare giant is a no-brainer, down over 30% over the past year while paying a solid 3.02% dividend. The company operates through two segments. The Pharmaceutical segment offers human health pharmaceutical products in: The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures, and markets veterinary pharmaceuticals, vaccines, health management solutions and services, as well as digitally connected identification, traceability, and monitoring products. Merck serves: Merck’s growth is a result of its efforts and strategic collaborations. The company works with AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eisai, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, and Gilead Sciences to jointly develop and commercialize long-acting HIV treatments, demonstrating a commitment to innovation and growth. Bank of America has a $120 target price. Our Top 2026 Passive Income Ultra-High-Yield Picks With Up to 10% Dividends Our top personal finance-related articles today. Your wallet will thank you later. This post may contain links from our sponsors and affiliates, and Flywheel Publishing may receive compensation for actions taken through… These four top Bank of America stock picks are now outstanding ideas, and two are in the healthcare sector. These four Goldman Sachs U.S. Conviction List stock picks come with dependable dividends for those seeking passive income. Many of our readers are looking for avenues to take advantage of the AI revolution, but are somewhat restricted by… These five value stock picks have generous dividends and the potential to provide investors with solid total returns for the… Goldman Sachs has raised its price targets on these four stocks, and they now look like outstanding ideas for growth… These five Goldman Sachs stock picks are poised for growth in 2026 and will continue to pay and raise their… These five top Buy-rated dividend stocks were among S&P 500's top performers so far this year and still offer strong… These three stocks from the Goldman Sachs U.S. Conviction List come with dependable dividends, making them ideal for investors interested…
--------------------------------------------------