List of news related to Microsoft stock price MSFT:

Title: Microsoft delivers an earnings beat but misses where it matters most
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/01/29/microsoft-delivers-an-earnings-beat-but-misses-where-it-matters-most.html
Time Published: 2025-01-30T01:08:23Z
Full Content:
Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds Microsoft couldn't shake the bear thesis with its fiscal 2025 second-quarter numbers Wednesday, causing the stock to fall more than 5% in extending trading. Despite beating top-line and bottom-line estimates, the software giant's disappointing cloud revenues and soft guidance renewed concerns its AI spending is not generating sufficient returns. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Data also provided by
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Share Market Highlights 29 January 2025: IT, auto stocks fuel market rally; Sensex hits 76,533, Nifty up 206 points
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/stock-market-highlights-29-january-2025/article69150594.ece
Time Published: 2025-01-29T01:12:38Z
Full Content:
+ 631.55 + 205.85 -8.00 + 66.00 + 79.00 + 631.55 + 205.85 + 205.85 -8.00 -8.00 + 66.00 Get businessline apps on Connect with us TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS Connect With Us Get BusinessLine apps on Comments READ LATER Stock Market on 29 January 2025 | Share Market Updates - Find here all the updates related to Sensex, Nifty, BSE, NSE, share prices and Indian stock markets. Digital transactions soared 94 times in volume and 3.5 times in value between 2013 and 2024, buoyed by the spectacular progress of the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and the plethora of digital payment options available, according to the Reserve Bank of India. Read more Ram Ratna Wires’ consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 was up ₹18.34 crore as against ₹11.71 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Stock surged 4.57% on the NSE to ₹532.05 Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited ( GRSE ) & Apollo Micro Systems Limited ( AMS ) signed MoU for Joint Development and Supply of Advanced Weapons and Electronic Systems. GRSE stock gained 1.78% on the NSE to ₹1,534, and Apollo Micro Systems stock climbed 5.33% to ₹125.27. Bansal Wire Industries recorded its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹41.6 crore as against ₹15.3 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. WhatsApp Image 2025-01-27 at 15.02.34_a6c1e5bf.jpg The company reported consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹96.43 crore as against ₹51.46 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Stock traded at ₹365.10 on the NSE, lower by 7.74%. As India anticipates the Union Budget 2025-26, several expectations have emerged that could significantly impact wealth management strategies. There is an expectation that the government may raise the basic exemption limit for personal income tax, with EY India suggesting an increase from ₹3 lakh to ₹5 lakh. This move could enhance disposable income and stimulate economic growth. Investors are also hopeful for a more streamlined capital gains tax structure across various asset classes, which could reduce complexity and improve compliance. Deloitte anticipates that the government may introduce measures to simplify the tax structure, potentially facilitating smoother merger and acquisition deals. On the investment front, the government is expected to maintain a strong focus on infrastructure development, with previous budgets allocating a capital expenditure outlay of 11.1 trillion rupees for this purpose. Similar or increased allocations are anticipated, continuing to drive growth in sectors like construction, cement, steel, and engineering. Furthermore, with the global shift towards sustainability, there is an expectation for increased emphasis on renewable energy and green technologies. Incentives for green bonds or Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) investments may also be introduced, aligning with global sustainability goals. For wealth management, these changes could necessitate adjustments in investment strategies to maintain tax efficiency, especially with potential modifications in income and capital gains taxes. The anticipated increased government spending in infrastructure and green energy sectors could also make related investment avenues more lucrative. As regulatory changes, particularly concerning mutual funds and other investment vehicles, are likely, staying informed and consulting with financial advisors will be crucial for navigating these shifts effectively. In summary, the upcoming budget is expected to introduce measures that could influence various aspects of wealth management, from tax planning to investment strategies. “The upcoming budget holds the promise of propelling India’s economy to greater heights in FY2025. With an immense focus on “Make in India” initiatives, an increasing regulatory oversight in the financial sector and a thriving global capability hub as key themes, the budget could further address issues faced by foreign companies doing business in India, attract investments for MSME entities and address inflationary pressures. By focusing on export competitiveness, sustainable infrastructure, and inclusive growth measures, the budget has the potential to strengthen India’s economic resilience and position it as a leader in the global economic landscape” The board has approved enhancement and combination of the previously approved fund-raising limit by way of nonconvertible debentures (“NCDs”) from Rs. 5,000 crores to Rs. 11,000 crores, which are to be raised through public issue or private placement, or a mix thereof. It has also approved raising of funds for an amount not exceeding ₹5,000 crore via QIP. Shares traded at ₹523.55 on the NSE, higher by 5.30% WhatsApp Image 2025-01-27 at 15.02.34_a6c1e5bf.jpg The number of stocks that recorded a 52-week high was 51, and those that hit a 52-week low was 144. A total of 304 stocks traded in the upper circuit, and 257 in the lower circuit. “To empower Indian farmers and accelerate agricultural growth, we anticipate exempting essential agricultural inputs such as agrochemicals, drones, and modern implements from GST or reducing the rate to a maximum of 5%. The current 18% GST on these items discourages farmers from adopting advanced technologies vital for bridging the yield gap with developed nations. This high tax burden often forces farmers to rely on low-quality alternatives, leading to reduced productivity, lower incomes, and significant losses for the nation in terms of GDP and food security. Additionally, lowering the import duty on pesticide technicals and formulations continues to 10% making advanced innovative crop solutions more affordable and accessible. Encouraging domestic R&D through reinstating a 200% tax deduction on research expenses and allocating a dedicated budget for agrochemical innovation will foster self-reliance and reduce dependency on imports. We appreciate the various initiatives by the Hon’ble Agriculture Minister, Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan, giving focus to the agriculture sector under the dynamic leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. India’s agricultural research needs urgent attention. Only 0.06% of GDP is allocated to R&D, compared to 4.5-5% in developed nations, limiting our capacity to innovate. Reinstating the 200% tax incentive for R&D would encourage domestic innovation, reduce dependence on foreign technology, and ensure farmers benefit from cutting-edge solutions. The agrochemical industry, contributing USD 5.5 billion annually to India’s agricultural exports, is pivotal to strengthening agriculture. Strategic measures like tax incentives, a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme and a review of the Insecticides Act to streamline faster new product approvals will empower farmers, enhance productivity, and position India as a global leader in agriculture.” “As we approach the Union Budget for 2025, we anticipate a comprehensive and broad-based fiscal plan from the Modi government, marking its first full-fledged budget in this term. The government is expected to focus on continued infrastructure investment, particularly in critical areas such as housing, electricity, and employment generation. The targeted fiscal deficit is projected to be around 4.5% of GDP, reflecting the government’s commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stability amidst global uncertainties. While there may be discussions around potential relief for taxpayers, we do not anticipate any major changes in the overall tax structure in this budget. Instead, the focus will likely remain on enhancing capital expenditure and stimulating consumption to revitalize the economy, ultimately balancing support for growth initiatives with fiscal responsibility and setting a positive direction for India’s economy in the coming fiscal year.” “The Union Budget should focus on continuity in its policies—frequent changes can disrupt confidence and long-term planning. Therefore, it is imperative to maintain 98% of the existing framework and communicate to the world about the consistency maintained. In fact, the Budget should focus on improving internal governance—diverting resources towards more impactful initiatives and eliminating redundant schemes. Necessary changes should be made wherever required with supporting rationale. This will also create a business-friendly environment, which is essential for India to attain its goal of Viksit Bharat. Streamlined regulations and a robust single-window clearance system can remove obstacles form industries, helping them utilise their full potential and drive economic expansion. High-tech manufacturing sectors, especially space, semiconductors, and chips, must form the core of this approach. Expanding the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme beyond its current 14 sectors would further bolster India’s industrial base and enhance resilience against global disruptions. Agriculture is equally important and remains central to India’s economic fabric. Initiatives such as One District, One Warehouse, can minimise post-harvest losses and improve supply chain efficiency, resulting in an increase in farmer incomes. By rationalising GST, reforming labour laws and incentivising green technologies, India can address the burgeoning issue of climate change while fostering resilience. These interconnected efforts, backed by public-private collaboration, can transform India into a future-ready, globally competitive economy.” Shares up 2.76% on the NSE to trade at ₹1,400.05 Radico Khaitan reported its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹95.49 crore as against ₹75.15 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year Datamatics Global Services reported its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹74.61 crore as against ₹41.41 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Orient Electric board has approved the payment of interim dividend of Rs 0.75 per equity share and fixed Tuesday, February 04, 2025, as the record date. Company reported its net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹27.17 crore as against ₹24.33 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Reducing the LTCG tax on equities from 12.5% to 10% would leave an additional 2.5% of gains in investors’ hands as investable capital. This surplus capital is likely to be reinvested in the market, enhancing liquidity and deepening market penetration. Similarly, reintroducing indexation benefits for debt mutual funds would ensure that investors are taxed only on real gains, making long-term investments in debt markets more attractive. These changes align with global best practices and can create a virtuous cycle—encouraging more retail and institutional participation, strengthening capital markets, and driving sustainable long-term growth. A stronger push for the vehicle scrappage policy could be a game-changer. Enhancing scrappage incentives to 8–10% of a new vehicle’s price and providing stronger benefits for electric vehicle (EVs) adoption would modernize India’s automotive landscape. Expanding scrapping facilities and automating fitness tests would make the process seamless. More importantly, linking scrappage with EV adoption would accelerate India’s transition to cleaner mobility while generating jobs in manufacturing and recycling. These measures mirror global best practices, such as Germany’s Umweltprämie and China’s EV incentives. This move not only reduces pollution but also boosts GST revenues—making it a win-win for both the economy and the environment. Lowering the GST rate on health and life insurance premiums from 18% to 5% would significantly reduce costs, making it more affordable and accessible. A lower GST rate would encourage more people across income levels to invest in health and life coverage. While there may be an initial reduction in GST collections per policy, the long-term impact could be much more positive—higher insurance penetration would offset revenue losses, while also reducing the financial burden on public healthcare infrastructure aligning with the government’s broader objective of strengthening social safety nets. Targeted infrastructure investments in underserved areas, including rural housing under PMAY, health and wellness centres, and broadband expansion under BharatNet, would drive inclusive economic growth. Improved healthcare, digital access, and transport connectivity would uplift living standards, reduce poverty, and foster greater economic participation. For instance, extending housing and clean water access to marginalized communities would not only enhance quality of life but also stimulate local economies. Prioritizing such investments ensures equitable development, bridges regional disparities, and lays the foundation for sustainable growth, aligning with India’s broader economic and social objectives. Craftsman Automation’s consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 declined to ₹12.93 crore as against ₹81.47 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Deepak Fertilizers and Petrochemicals Corporation reported its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹253.09 crore as against ₹60.53 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Teamlease Services Limited reported its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹28.37 crore as against ₹31.12 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Its consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹124.10 crore as against ₹88.53 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. CAMS stock gained 3.71% on the NSE to ₹3,858.55 Maruti Suzuki India’s consolidated net profit increased by 16 per cent to ₹3,727 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2024, as against ₹3,207 crore in the October-December period of last fiscal. Ambuja Cements (ACL), an Adani Group company, is expected to report a top-line in the range of ₹8,022 crore to ₹9,076 crore in the December quarter, according to estimates from top stock broking firms. While Yes Securities sees a 1.3 per cent year-on-year decline in ACL’s Q3FY25 revenue, Nuvama Institutional Equities estimates a jump of up to 12 per cent jump. Net profit is expected to be in the range of ₹74 crore to ₹1,022 crore, representing a decline of 6 per cent to 32 per cent in net profit. Read full report here “Indian agriculture needs to be supported by strong research for the development of resilient seeds for better adoption to climatic changes. Sustained budgetary focus on varietal development can provide farmers with better and more climate-resilient options. This can be a great support to farmers for increasing yield by 15-40% from limited land resources. Agri infrastructure is a critical factor in the development of the sector. Last year a budget of INR 600 cr was allocated to AIF for promoting the creation of infrastructure at the farm and organisation level. The scheme should be promoted further with a larger budget to support micro infrastructure development not only in Agriculture but also in allied sectors such as dairy, fisheries, floriculture, beekeeping and medicinal plants. Further, schemes to promote digital agriculture should be promoted in the upcoming budget to enable seedless connectivity and data flow from producers to consumers. Digital infrastructure, supported by tools such as blockchain and IoT, can help farmers make better, informed decisions, create preparedness for nature’s unpredictability, and manage price fluctuations in the market.” CSB Bank reported an overall good set of numbers for the quarter ended December 2024. Here’s what stood out: In Q3 FY25, the banking sector has been impacted by liquidity tightness in the system, having a say on growth in deposits and consequentially the growth in advances. The system level growth in deposits was seen at 9.8 per cent year on year and the growth in advances at 11.2 per cent. However, CSB Bank was an exception. It’s business (deposits and advances) grew at over twice the system level growth, unlike some bigger banks. Deposits grew at 22.2 per cent and advances at 26.5 per cent year on year. Read full report here Aluminium futures broke out of a range and marked a 11-quarter high last week. The continuous contract marked a high of ₹256.45 on January 20. But then the price started to moderate. On Tuesday (January 28), aluminium futures (February) closed at ₹247.35. Although the price has dropped, we cannot really call it a trend reversal. Especially considering that a retracement is usual after a sharp up move. Read full report here ‘’The world seems to be different in the last one week. DeepSeek has taken the world by storm over last couple of days – DeepSeek R1, dropped last week is already comparing with OPEN AI’s top models across math, code, and reasoning tasks and at fraction of costs!! The platform is open source, and the massive research is out there for anyone to threadbare! The way all the semi names have given up gains and corrected, difficult to say, that we are done yet there as uncertainty would continue to prevail over what the true demand would be for the chips, fabrication plants, energy, etc. There is likely to be some commentary from the Mega Cap names later this week – Apple, MSFT, TSLA, META, ASML, etc – hopefully, some clarity may emerge on what DeepSeek would eventually mean for Big Tech. INDIA during the week extended the sell off, with SMID indices draw down now approaching 15-18% - already the biggest drawdown since start of 2022. We would be favouring a sharp bounce here, given how oversold the momentum indicators are, but any sustained rally would require some direction from FM (Saturday Budget) and RBI (easing of lending norms, rate cut, etc). RBI has already initiated some announcements as regards unconventional easing – need to follow up with more of such announcements and rate cut perhaps in Feb. Liquidity Deficit has ballooned to INR 3.1trn, prompting RBI to announce slew of measures like: · OMO purchase of INR 600bn in 3 equal tranches · 6mth tenor USD/INR buy/sell swap of $5bn on Jan 31st · Longer tenor 56-day VRR of INR 500bn on Feb 7th to add durability to liquidity the measures announced could improve the system liquidity deficit to INR 2.4trn by end March, with core deficit likely around INR 1.0-1.2trn, implying that more measures are likely to be announced. Our economist suggests that these are unconventional easing mechanisms, and probably precursor to a likely monetary policy easing too in Feb !! Having lost around 3% of its value so far in the month, Nifty looks on track to end January on a negative note to mark the fourth consecutive month of correction — an exceptionally rare occurrence that hasn’t been reported in the last 23 years. Fed action, slew of reforms in the budget and liquidity easing by the central bank will set the tone for the markets in the coming 2-3 months. The FII’s have been sellers almost to the tune to ~ 1 bn USD even in Jan. Technically a push beyond 23200 will determine the future trend.’’ “The Budget announced in July 2024 brought limited changes for individual taxpayers, leaving many to hope that the upcoming Budget 2025 will deliver the much-needed tax relief to alleviate their financial pressures. There is a strong expectation that the government will focus on improving taxpayers’ savings by introducing reforms such as a unified tax regime and enhanced deductions. The Dilemma of Old vs New Tax Regimes - The introduction of two tax regimes - Old Tax Regime (OTR) and New Tax Regime (NTR) - was intended to offer taxpayers flexibility, allowing them to choose the system that best suits their investments, savings habits, and preferences. However, the reality has been far more complex. Many taxpayers find themselves confused between the two regimes, often reassessing their choice not only during the year but also while filing their tax returns. In light of these complexities, the upcoming Budget should focus on simplifying the tax structure for individual taxpayers by consolidating the current dual regimes into a single, cohesive tax framework. While this shift may take time, it is anticipated that the OTR may eventually be phased out, with its abolition ideally scheduled for FY 2026-27 to provide ample time for taxpayers, employers, and financial institutions to adjust. A Single, More Beneficial Tax Regime - Since the introduction of the NTR, the options for tax savings have been limited, making it essential to reconsider and amend the structure for the benefit of taxpayers. While the NTR is preferred as a streamlined tax system, it can be made even more effective by incorporating the following key changes: Simplification of income tax slabs and rates: Increasing the basic exemption limit of income from INR 3 lakhs to INR 5 lakhs. The differences between tax slabs are currently inconsistent at INR 2 lakhs or INR 3 lakhs. A more uniform approach is needed with consistent income gaps. Introducing a new 25% tax rate slab will provide further tax relief for middle-income earners. The tax rates currently stand at 5%, 10%, 15%, 20% and 30%. The income limit for the 30% should be enhanced from INR 15 lakhs to INR 20 lakhs. Inclusion of popular deductions under the NTR: Section 80C: Allow deductions up to INR 2 lakhs for life insurance premiums, employees’ Provident Fund contributions, etc. Section 80D: Extend the deduction up to INR 1 lakh for health insurance premiums for self and family, addressing the growing burden of medical expenses. Section 80TTB: Include a deduction of up to INR 50,000 for senior citizens earning interest from deposits with banks, post offices, etc. 10(13A): Allow salaried taxpayers to claim HRA deductions for rental expenditure under the NTR. These proposed amendments will make the NTR not only simpler but also more tax-efficient” Indian Bank reported a standalone net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 at ₹2,852.36 crore as against ₹2,119.35 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Gujarat Fluorochemicals’ consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 2024 stood at ₹126 crore as against ₹80 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Shares zoom 6.73% on the NSE to ₹3,575.75 Equity markets extended their morning gains in Wednesday’s mid-day trading, with the benchmark Sensex climbing 533.11 points or 0.70 per cent to 76,434.52, while the broader Nifty rose 182.20 points or 0.79 per cent to 23,139.45, as investors positioned themselves ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s interest rate decision. Read more smallcase has released a Managers Budget 2025-26 Survey Report detailing the expectations from the Union Budget. With over 100 managers on the smallcase platform, the survey indicated that managers expect a comprehensive bouquet of reforms through tax changes and incentives. Over 50% smallcase managers expect fiscal deficit to remain below 5%. Over 75% smallcase managers expect government’s FY25 borrowing to increase and there is a growing interest in ESG investments, driven by policy alignment. Growth rate, Inflation and Fiscal Deficit The survey indicates a moderate optimism in the GDP growth rate of FY25. 26% smallcase managers foresee the GDP growth falling between 5-6% 56% expect it to be between 6-7% 17%, they projected the GDP growth to be 7% or higher, which can be said as cautious yet optimistic about India’s economic growth direction. Regarding the inflation rate, 52% smallcase managers predict a rate of 4-5%, which is in line with the Reserve Bank of India’s target range. 39% expect inflation to hover around 5-6%, while almost 9% anticipate it will fall below 4%, signaling potential moderation in price pressures. When it comes to fiscal deficit targets, more than 52% expect it to remain below 5%, while 35% project a range of 5-5.5%. A smaller proportion, 12%, predict it may go slightly higher to 5.5-6%, or even exceed 6%. Over 75% of the respondents are bullish that the government’s FY25 borrowing programme will see moderate to strong increase. Speaking on the survey, Vasanth Kamath, Founder and CEO, smallcase said, “The Union Budget is a pivotal event that shapes India’s economic trajectory for the years ahead. Our manager survey reflects the expectations of industry stakeholders, highlighting a strong focus on growth-driving reforms, sustainability, and digital transformation.” Maruti Suzuki India Ltd board has approved the scheme of amalgamation of Suzuki Motor Gujarat Private Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary, into and with the Company. Further, the board has approved re-appointment of Hisashi Takeuchi as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer for a further period of three years with effect from 1st April, 2025 till 31st March, 2028. Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund (‘MOMF’) has launched its latest new fund offer (NFO), ‘Motilal Oswal Innovation Opportunities Fund’, an an open-ended equity scheme following innovation theme. Key Fund Details: NFO Period: 29th January 2025 to 12th February 2025 Investment Objective: To achieve long term capital appreciation by predominantly investing in equity and equity related instruments of companies that will benefit from the adoption of innovative strategies or following the innovation theme. However, there can be no assurance that the investment objective of the scheme will be realised. Benchmark: Nifty 500 Total Return Index Portfolio Strategy: The fund is market cap agnostic and will invest in upto *~35 stocks with High Active Share and High Conviction *~As per current FM Strategy Investor Profile: The fund is suitable for investors who are seeking capital appreciation over long-term by investing predominantly in equity or equity related investments of companies that will benefit from adoption of innovative strategies or following the innovation theme. Motilal Oswal Innovation Opportunities Fund adopts a forward-thinking approach, identifying unique opportunities and capitalizing emerging trends ahead of the market curve. The Fund utilizes a bottom-up investment strategy, with the portfolio positioned as ‘Anti-Fragile,’ designed to withstand and potentially benefit from market volatility and disruption. It focuses on investing in disruptive companies driven by innovation, with a concentrated portfolio of approximately 35 high-conviction stocks. Prateek Agrawal, MD & CEO, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company Ltd (MOAMC), said “India is making remarkable strides in innovation, climbing from **66th position in 2013 to 39th in 2024 on the Global Innovation Index and securing #3rd place in the Global Unicorn Index. This progress is driven by developments in digital transformation, a thriving start-up ecosystem, the adoption of green energy, and government schemes such as PLI and Make in India. We believe that with the right demographics and changing consumer needs driven by convenience and high disposable income, India is poised to reach the cusp of innovation, unlocking investment opportunities in disruptive and innovative companies.” Niket Shah, Chief investment Officer, Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund, said, “Our innovation fund is designed for investors seeking exposure to transformative opportunities in India’s growth story. It aims to capitalize on opportunities or challenges faced by companies, sectors, or the economy, aiming to leverage temporary disruptions driven by our strong research expertise. It will follow a disciplined investment approach based on our Quality, Growth, Longevity, and Price (‘QGLP’) philosophy, prioritizing a minimum threshold set for ROCE/ROE to ensure sustainable growth by investing in themes identified by investment team collectively. Currently, the fund will have 65% representation in house themes, 25% allocation outside house themes, and a 10% provision for risk mitigation.” The Fund will be managed by Niket Shah (Chief Investment Officer, Fund Manager), Atul Mehra (Fund Manager), Rakesh Shetty (Fund Manager Debt Component) and Sunil Sawant (Fund Manager - Overseas Component). Augmont, India’s largest gold trading platform, announced that it has added Lab Grown Diamonds (LGD) to its existing online SPOT trading platform for precious metals catering to more than 5,000 jewellers across the country. The enhanced SPOT 2.0 platform brings Augmont’s 17 years of precious metals trading expertise to the growing LGD sector. This addition represents an evolution of diamond trading infrastructure, particularly as India maintains its position as the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing destination. The platform enhancement introduces transparent pricing mechanisms and streamlined procurement processes for the LGD market inspiring confidence among key stakeholders. This strategic move is set to streamline the procurement for jewellers while establishing a transparent and efficient pricing mechanism for the rapidly growing LGD market in India. Mr. Ketan Kothari, Director of Augmont Group, said, “Augmont has firmly established itself as India’s go-to destination for buying and selling gold. Building on this strong foundation, we are proud to have our own lab-grown diamond (LGD) platform on Augmont SPOT, addressing the surging demand in this rapidly growing industry. The platform will enable market pricing and delivery of these diamonds globally including USA, Europe, Gulf and East Asia’’ Mr. Aarav Bafna, Product Head (LGD), Augmont, said, “With the extended version of SPOT, we plan to set a benchmark for LGD pricing. The current LGD pricing model, based solely on discounts relative to mined diamonds, is fundamentally flawed and irrational. Augmont is here to transform that narrative. Just as we revolutionized gold trading and price discovery in India, we are now ready to redefine and reimagine the LGD market.” SPOT offers a comprehensive and unified trading experience, enabling jewellers to source all their manufacturing requirements—including gold, silver, platinum, lab-grown diamonds, precious metal alloys, precious stones, and other essential materials—through a single integrated online platform. It also features real-time price discovery powered by advanced algorithms and market mechanisms, ensuring transparent and fair pricing. Quality assurance is a priority, with certification and verification processes for all listed diamonds. Built upon Augmont’s proven 17-year-old trading infrastructure, SPOT ensures seamless integration for a reliable and efficient trading experience. The platform addresses the growing demand for lab-grown diamonds, which have gained significant market share due to their sustainable nature and competitive pricing. SPOT is expected to handle substantial trading volumes, reflecting India’s dominant position in the global LGD polishing industry. As per the Commerce Ministry’s data, India polishes almost 98% of all lab-grown diamonds in the world in 2022. As per the EY report, the demand for Lab-Grown Diamonds is rising across the world, and its global market size is growing at 8.64% CAGR to touch $39.3 billion by 2028. And the Indian lab-grown diamond jewellery market, which was valued at around $300 million in 2023, is set to increase to $1.2 billion by 2033. UTI Mutual Fund (UTI MF) has launched two new index funds: UTI Nifty Midsmallcap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund (An open-ended scheme replicating/tracking the Nifty Midsmallcap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Total Return Index (TRI)) and UTI Nifty India Manufacturing Index Fund (An open-ended scheme replicating/tracking the Nifty India Manufacturing Total Return Index (TRI)) UTI Nifty Midsmallcap 400 Momentum Quality 100 Index Fund The Scheme is a first of its kind offering in the industry with the index fund structure and also UTI’s first multi-cap and multi-factor index fund, an innovative addition to its index fund offerings. This open-ended scheme is benchmarked to Nifty MidSmallcap 400 Momentum Quality 100 TRI. The scheme’s combination provides investors the benefit from combination of two factor strategies in one fund, exposure to companies with relatively better growth potential and quality within the mid-small cap segment and builds style diversification in the portfolio. The fund is a low-cost index fund that shall endeavour to achieve return equivalent to returns of the underlying index while minimizing tracking error. Salient Features: NFO Period: 28th January 2025 to 10th February 2025 Fund Manager: Sharwan Kumar Goyal, Head – Passive, Arbitrage & Quant Strategies The Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX), India’s leading Exchange in the Commodity Derivatives Market segment, shall be conducting a special live trading session on Saturday, February 1, 2025, to make available the trading platform for market participants on account of presentation of the Union Budget, supporting their real-time risk management and hedging requirements. The exchange will remain open for normal trade from 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. For complete details, please refer to MCX circular no. MCX/TRD/841/2024 dated December 24, 2024, and for clearing and settlement, please refer to MCXCCL circular no. MCXCCL/C&S/327/2024 dated December 30, 2024. 1. Va Tech: ORDER Company secures a 7-year operations contract worth ₹121 Cr for the BAPCO Refining Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant in Bahrain. 2. Kilburn: ACQUISITION Company acquired Monga Strayfield for INR 123 Cr to enhance its global presence in RF drying and heating solutions. With a strong USA and Europe customer base, the acquisition adds expertise in textiles and packaged foods, expected to boost Company’s topline by INR 80 Cr and improve margins. 3. Home First: GOOD TO EXCELLENT RESULTS For the quarter ending Dec-24, Sales up 37% YoY from INR 296 Cr in Dec-23 to INR 406 Cr in Dec-24. Similarly, Net Profit up 23% from INR 79 Cr to INR 97 Cr. On a QoQ basis, Sales up 9% and Net Profit up 5%. 4. Dynamic Cables: GOOD TO EXCELLENT RESULTS For the quarter ending Dec-24, Sales up 31% YoY from INR 192 Cr in Dec-23 to INR 252 Cr in Dec-24. Similarly, Net Profit up 2x from INR 8 Cr to INR 16 Cr. On a QoQ basis, Sales up 8% and Net Profit up 14%. 5. Aurionpro Solutions: GOOD RESULTS For the quarter ending Dec-24, Sales up 32% YoY from INR 231 Cr in Dec-23 to INR 306 Cr in Dec-24. Similarly, Net Profit up 26% from INR 38 Cr to INR 48 Cr. On a QoQ basis, Sales up 10% and Net Profit up 4%. WhatsApp Image 2025-01-29 at 12.02.15 PM.jpeg Of 3,901 stocks traded on the BSE at 12 noon on January 29, 2025, 2,870 advanced against 882 stocks that declined, and 149 remained unchanged. While 41 stocks recorded a 52-week high, 122 hit a 52-week low. A total of 208 stocks traded in the upper circuit, and 234 in the lower circuit. “The future of India’s flex space industry lies in a synergistic partnership between the government and the private sector. The government can play a pivotal role by introducing policy frameworks that encourage innovation -such as tax incentives, streamlined regulatory approvals, and interest subvention schemes to ease capital access for operators. Integrating flex spaces into urban development projects, like smart cities, IT parks and transport hubs, will further bolster growth and establish them as a vital component of India’s economic infrastructure. At the same time, the private sector must rise to the challenge by delivering world-class, technology driven workspace solutions that cater to the evolving needs of businesses and professionals. Investments in sustainable practices, digital infrastructure like 5G and enhanced customer experiences will ensure long term viability and competitiveness. When the public and private sectors collaborate with a shared vision, we can create an ecosystem that not only supports India’s economic ambitions but also redefines how businesses operate in the modern era.” ITC Hotels, the demerged hospitality business of ITC Limited, made its stock market debut at ₹180 on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) on Wednesday, January 29, 2025. The stock subsequently declined to ₹175.60, down 2.44. from its listing price, as of 11.05 am. Read more Bank Nifty opened today’s session with a minor gap-up at 48,997 versus yesterday’s close of 48,867. It advanced further and is currently hovering around 49,120, up 0.5 per cent. Read more Re Sustainability and Recycling Pvt Ltd (ReSRL), a Re Sustainability Company (ReSL), and Aarti Circularity Ltd (ACL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aarti Industries Ltd (AIL), a player in speciality chemicals, have joined hands to establish a transformative Joint Venture Company (JV Co) to drive the development of Plastic Materials Recycling Facilities (PMRFs) across India, aiming to revolutionise plastic resource recovery and sustainable resource management practices. Aarti Industries stock gained 4.31% on the NSE to ₹428.10 Bajaj Auto shares jumped 2.65 per cent or ₹222.60 to ₹8,621 on the NSE today at 10.35 am, following the release of its third-quarter results. The two-wheeler manufacturer reported a slight decline in net profit to ₹2,018.7 crore compared to ₹2,042 crore in the same quarter last year, missing analyst estimates of ₹2,128 crore. Read more Nifty 50, the benchmark index, opened today’s session higher at 23,027 versus yesterday’s close of 22,957. The index is currently trading at 23,085, up 0.5 per cent. Read more Crude oil futures traded lower on Wednesday morning as the industry body American Petroleum Institute (API) indicated an increase in inventories in the US for the week ending January 24. Read more “MCX Gold surged to a record high of Rs 80,326 per 10 grams, rising by more than 700 points. The pullback in the dollar index and weak consumer data print from the USA lifted the sentiment of precious metals. Investors sought safe-haven assets after the stock market rout, particularly in the US tech stock. The focus will shift to today’s FOMC meeting. Jerome Powell may address President Trump’s recent call for lower interest rates, which could influence market expectations regarding the Fed’s future actions Suzlon Energy stock locked in upper circuit post Q3 results. Traded at ₹52.77, higher by 5% on the NSE. The company had posted 91 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 388 crore for December quarter on the back of higher revenues. Benchmark indices opened higher on Wednesday as global cues remained positive ahead of the US Federal Reserve’s interest rate decision, with technology stocks leading the gains following overnight rallies in US markets. The Sensex opened higher at 76,138.24 compared to its previous close of 75,901.41 and is currently trading at 76,169.38, up by 267.97 points or 0.35 per cent. Similarly, the Nifty opened at 23,026.75 against its previous close of 22,957.25 and is now at 23,040.10, gaining 82.85 points or 0.36 per cent. Technology and auto stocks outperformed, while FMCG counters witnessed selling pressure. “The market’s focus will be on three main factors: the US Fed’s interest rate decision, the Union Budget set to be announced on Saturday, and corporate earnings reports,” said Vikas Jain, Head of Research at Reliance Securities. Read more Track the Q3 results live here Jubilant Pharmova has informed the exchanges that Jubilant Biosys Innovative Research Services Pte Limited, Singapore (JBIRSPL), a subsidiary of Jubilant Biosys Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has executed the transaction definitive agreements with Pierre Fabre SA, and its affiliate entities (“PF”), for JBIRSPL to acquire 80% equity capital in JASMIN (new company incorporated by PF in France, as a Société par Actions Simplifiée (SAS)), with remaining 20% retained by PF. In respect of an application made by JBIRSPL (for the said acquisition of 80% equity in JASMIN), the French Ministry of Economy and Finance has asserted that the transaction is not subject to foreign investment control in France. Shares up 1.49% on the NSE to ₹895.05 VA TECH WABAG expands presence in the Middle East region and strengthen its leadership in the O&M business, securing an order worth ~USD 14 Million (₹121 Crore) from BAPCO Refining B.S.C (BAPCO) towards operation (O&M) of Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant (IWTP) in Bahrain, for a period of 7 years. Shares gained 3.88% on the NSE to 1,260.7 L&T Technology Services Ltd awarded multi-year, $80-million deal with a US-based manufacturer of industrial products and solutions. Stock surged 3.98% on the NSE to ₹5,324.90 WhatsApp Image 2025-01-29 at 9.32.57 AM.jpeg Crude oil futures traded lower on Wednesday morning as the industry body American Petroleum Institute (API) showed an increase in inventories in the US for the week ending January 24. At 9.25 am on Wednesday, April Brent oil futures were at $76.31, down by 0.24 per cent, and March crude oil futures on WTI (West Texas Intermediate) were at $73.67, down by 0.14 per cent. February crude oil futures were trading at ₹6390 on Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) during the initial hour of trading on Wednesday against the previous close of ₹6340, up by 0.79 per cent, and March futures were trading at ₹6337 against the previous close of ₹6298, up by 0.62 per cent. Listing Date: Wednesday, January 29, 2025 (Today) Scrip Code of ITC Hotels Limited is as under: NSE: ITCHOTELS BSE: 544325 Group: “T” ISIN No: INE379A01028 The Scrip will be in Trade-for-Trade segment for 10 trading days. Face Value: Rs. 1/- each fully paid ITC Limited (Demerged Company) ITC Hotels Limited (Resulting Company) Ratio: 1:10 (For every 10 shares held in ITC Limited, the shareholders will receive 1 shares in ITC Hotels Limited) Company: Prataap Snacks Ltd (DIAMONDYD) Type of Offer: Acquisition Acquirer: Authum Investment & Mahi Madhusudan Kela Issue of Public Announcement: 26-Sep-2024 Offer price Rs: 865.66 CMP: Rs 1003.00 (%Prem.)/Disc.: (15.9)% Offer Size : Rs 545.22 Cr Proposed Acq. No. of shares: 0.63 cr Proposed Acq. : 26% Schedule of Activity: Start Date: 16 Jan 2025 End Date: 29 Jan 2025 (Today) Obligation Date: 11 Feb 2025 Settlement Date: 12 Feb 2025 Issue Price: Rs 360/- Application Money: Rs 90/- First Call: Rs 90/- UPL Price: Rs 539.00/- UPLPP Price: Rs 259.35/- Symbol: UPLPP BSE Code: 890209 Last Day to Trade: Wednesday, 29th January, 2025 (Today) Record Date: Thursday, 30th January, 2025 Wednesday, 29 January, 2025 (Today) Derivative Segment • Bajaj Finance Ltd. • CAMS Ltd. • KPIT Tech Ltd. • Tata Motors Ltd. • Maruti Suzuki Ltd. • Ambuja Cements Ltd. • Indian Bank • Jindal Stainless Ltd. • SRF Ltd. • Voltas Ltd. Cash Segment • Blue Dart Ltd. • Blue Star Ltd. • Craftsman Auto Ltd. • Westlife Food Ltd • Radico Khaitan Ltd. • Tamilnad Mercantile Ltd. • Brigade Enterprises Ltd. • Deepak Fertilisers Ltd. • Gujarat Fluoro Ltd. • JBM Auto Ltd. • Adani Power Ltd. • Asahi India Glass Ltd. • Chalet Hotels Ltd. • eClerx Services Ltd. • Hitachi Energy Ltd. • Jupiter Wagons Ltd. • Olectra Greentech Ltd. • Quess Corp Ltd. • Usha Martin Ltd. Thursday, 30 January, 2025 Derivative Segment • Bajaj Finserv Ltd. • Bharat Electronics Ltd. • Biocon Ltd. • Container Corp Ltd. • Dabur India Ltd. • Navin Fluorine Ltd. • Shree Cement Ltd. • Kalyan Jewellers Ltd. • Larsen & Toubro Ltd. • PB Fintech Ltd. • Bank Of Baroda • Tata Consumer Ltd. • Adani Enterprises Ltd. • Adani Ports Ltd. • Astral Ltd. • Coromandel Int Ltd. • Dr. Lal Pathlabs Ltd. • GAIL (India) Ltd. • Jindal Steel Ltd. • Max Healthcare Ltd. • Prestige Estates Ltd. Cash Segment • Bajaj Holdings Ltd. • Ajanta Pharma Ltd. • Star Cement Ltd. • Aavas Financiers Ltd. • Clean Science Ltd. • Praj Industries Ltd. • The Phoenix Mills Ltd. • Vedant Fashions Ltd. • Welspun Living Ltd. Friday, 31 January, 2025 Derivative Segment • Chola Inv & Fin Ltd. • Marico Ltd. • Nestle Ltd. • Poonawalla Fincorp Ltd. • ONGC Ltd. • Sun Pharma Ltd. • City Union Bank Ltd. • IndusInd Bank Ltd. • LIC Housing Ltd. • Bandhan Bank Ltd. Cash Segment • Mahindra Holidays Ltd. • Mahindra Lifespace Ltd. • Medplus Health Ltd. • Jyothy Labs Ltd. • Aptus Value Housing Ltd. • Equitas SFB Ltd. • Five-Star Business Ltd. • Pfizer Ltd. • GMDC Ltd. • Inox Wind Ltd. • Jubilant Pharmova Ltd. • Nuvama Wealth Ltd. • Relaxo Footwears Ltd. • Triveni Turbine Ltd. Saturday, 1 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Aarti Industries Ltd. Cash Segment • Vinati Organics Ltd. Monday, 3 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Aditya Birla Cap Ltd. • Tube Investments Ltd. • Divi’s Lab Ltd. • HFCL Ltd. Cash Segment • Castrol India Ltd. • Gland Pharma Ltd. • Garden Reach Ship Ltd. • Alembic Pharma Ltd. • K.P.R. Mill Ltd. • KEC Int Ltd. Tuesday, 4 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Asian Paints Ltd. • Max Financial Ltd. • Titan Ltd. • Tata Power Ltd. • Godrej Properties Ltd. Cash Segment • BASF India Ltd. • Thermax Ltd. • Global Health Ltd. • Happiest Minds Ltd. • Mishra Dhatu Ltd. • JB Chemicals Ltd. • Kajaria Ceramics Ltd. • Lemon Tree Ltd. • Zydus Wellness Ltd. • TRIVENI ENGINEERING LTD Wednesday, 5 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Cummins India Ltd. • Page Industries Ltd. • Info Edge (India) Ltd. • Zydus Lifesciences Ltd. Cash Segment • Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd. • Timken India Ltd. Thursday, 6 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • BSE Ltd. • Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. • SBI • Trent Ltd. • Hero MotoCorp Ltd. • Ramco Cements Ltd. • Bharti Airtel Ltd. • Britannia Ind Ltd. • ITC Ltd. • PI Industries Ltd. Cash Segment • Motherson Sumi Wiring Ltd. • Aadhar Housing Ltd. • Bharat Dynamics Ltd. • Bharti Hexacom Ltd. • Bikaji Foods Ltd. • ZF Commercial Vehicle Ltd. Friday, 7 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • LIC Cash Segment • Akzo Nobel Ltd. • Chola Fin Hold Ltd. • Latent View Analytics Ltd. • Honeywell Auto Ltd. • 3M India Ltd. • Action Construction Ltd. • Firstsource Solutions Ltd. Saturday, 8 February, 2025 Derivative Segment NIL Cash Segment • Amara Raja E&M Ltd. Monday, 10 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Bata India Ltd. • Apollo Hospitals Ltd. • Escorts Kubota Ltd. Cash Segment • CRISIL Ltd. • Esab India Ltd. • Gillette India Ltd. • Glaxosmithkline Pharma Ltd. • HBL Engineering Ltd. • Elgi Equipments Ltd. Tuesday, 11 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Berger Paints India Ltd. Cash Segment • P&G H&H Ltd. • HEG Ltd. • Bayer CropScience Ltd. • Astrazeneca Pharma Ltd. • RHI Magnesita Ltd. Wednesday, 12 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Muthoot Finance Ltd. Cash Segment • Endurance Tech Ltd. • P&G Health Ltd. • Suven Pharma Ltd. • IFCI Ltd. Thursday, 13 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • Hindalco Ind Ltd. • United Breweries Ltd. Cash Segment • Concord Biotech Ltd. Tuesday, 18 February, 2025 Derivative Segment • ABB India Ltd. Cash Segment NIL Jefferies on ITC Maintain Buy, TP 550 Believe Union Budget remains key event for tobacco Build in 5% effective tax rate hike which would be positive But 5-9% tax hike would be tough yet manageable Tobacco taxation was last changes in 2023, resulted in 2% increase in tax per stick Co should be able to offset this with 3-4% product price hike Continues to trade 45-50% discount to peers HSBC On Cipla Buy Call, Target Rs1,800/Sh Q3 PAT Beat Est On Better Sales Mix, Lower R&D, And One-Offs FY25 EBITDA Margin Guidance Increased Line-Up Of Differentiated Launches Should Support US Sales In Medium Term Lanreotide Supply Should Normalise In Q1FY26 FDA Approvals For Abraxane And Advair Are Key Catalysts Nomura On Cipla Buy Call, Target Rs1,780/sh Q3 Ahead Of Estimates Delay In Key US Launches Impacts FY26 Est; Retain FY27 Est Citi On Colgate Sell Call, Target Cut To Rs2,600 From Rs3,000/sh Cons Revenue Grew 5%, Largely In-Line Domestic Biz Rev Grew 3% YoY Vs Mid-single Digit Growth For HUL’s Oral Care BIZ Indication That, Increased Trade & Consumer Promotions-Led Realisations Declined Product Pricing Was Flat YoY Believe More Promotional Intensity Due To Competitive Activity In A Subdued Demand Environ Jefferies On Kaynes Upgrade To Buy Call, Target Price Cut To Rs5,400/Sh From Rs6,950/Sh Co Has Sharply Corrected By Around 38% In Past 1 Month Core OPM At 14-15% Is Much Higher Than Peers 9MFY25 Sales/PAT Robust At +49%/+74%YoY Q3 Orderbook Up +60%YoY To Rs60 Bn Co Targets Rs35 Bn Sales From OSAT By FY30 Est FY25-27e EPS CAGR At +50% Driven By Strong Orderbook Appears Well-Poised To Benefit From Component Eco-System Nomura On Kaynes Buy Call, Target Price At Rs6,146/Sh EMS Demand Tailwinds In Place 3Q EBITDA Below Est, Healthy Order Wins Drive Growth Visibility OSAT/PCB Long-term Catalysts Co targets Rs28-29 Bn In Rev And Maintains 15%+ Margin For FY25E Stock Currently Trades At 36x FY27F EPS Nomura On CG Power Buy Call, Target Price At Rs900/Sh Robust Ordering; Operationally Mixed Results In 3Q Estimate Sales/PAT CAGR of 32%/38% Over FY25F-27F Based On Diversified Growth Levers Miss On EBITDA Primarily Due To Industrial Systems Further Capex Augmentation Planned Given Healthy Demand Visibility MS On BHEL Overweight Call, Target Price At Rs352/Sh Standalone Revenue Rose 32% YoY, & Was +5% Est EBITDA Was Rs3 Bn (Our Est Rs2.5 Bn) Adjusted PAT Was Rs1.25 Bn (Our Est Rs720 m) Power and Industry segment revenue growth was +32% Power and Industry segment EBIT margins were +11.2% and 6.2% respectively F3Q Order Inflows Were Rs68.6 Bn (F3Q24 Rs25.7 Bn); 80% Of Orders Were From Ind Segment CLSA On BHEL Underperform Call, Target Price Cut To Rs166/Sh Reiterate “Underperform” As The Key Catalyst For Its Re-Rating The Inclusion In Global Passive Indices Has Already Passed Recent Entry Of L&T In Thermal Power Equipment Raises Questions About Its Mkt Dominance We Have Cut FY25-27CL EPS By 3-8% Due To Weak Margins Modi 3.0-led Revival Of Capex Drove Its Backlog 47% YoY Operationally, BHEL Is Turning Around In 3Q, With Execution Up 38% YoY However, EBITDA Margin Disappoints (flat QoQ despite top line +10%QoQ) Stock Is Expensive At A 34x FY26CL PE CLSA on Tata Steel Upgrade to Hold from Underperformance, TP Rs125 (from Rs135) Q4-Guidance improving domestic but Europe remains challenging Stable realizations, lower costs and efficiency gains for India business Risk and reward balanced post correction Outperformance will hinge on regional demand uptick and imposition of duties if any MS on Suzlon Maintain Overweight, TP Rs71 Q3FY25-Strong beat Expects large order book (5.5GW) to be executed in Q4FY25 and FY26 Co says wind industry constraints around land acquisitions likely to improve from FY26 Turbine enquiries have been increasing Co sees capes of Rs 350-400cr on new lines of blade manufacturing in MP and Rajasthan GS on SBI Card Buy, TP Rs 912 Strong 3Q with PAT beating GSe by 4% driven by 2% operating profitability beat, & stable loan loss provisions. Investors’ focus on asset quality heading into qtr where 1) mix of stage 2 assets improved sequentially 2) absolute recoveries rose+23% YoY 3) incremental mgmt commentary was encouraging, highlighting an inflection point in asset quality cycle 4) quality of new sourcing improved UBS on SBI Card Neutral, TP Rs 800 Miss due to higher credit cost & weak fee income Q3 spends declined 11% YoY; Margins stable QoQ at 10.6% Management believes credit cost near peak CLSA on SBI Card Hold, TP Rs 780 3Q PAT missed est by 8% driven by higher credit costs. Loan growth slowed down and NIM was stable. A slightly weak fee income was offset by another good quarter on opex. However, credit costs jumped from 9% to 9.5% QoQ and are up 200bp YoY Bernstein on SBI Card Underperform Call, Target Price At Rs620/Sh Mgmt Notes: Peak Credit Costs Have Been Reached, With Reduced Flow From Delinquencies No Guidance Was Provided On The Pace Of Improvement Or The New Normal For Credit Costs However, Management Emphatically Declared That The Bottom Had Been Hit Nuvama on SBI Cards Maintain Buy, TP at 885 vs 850 Credit Cost rose again by 8% QoQ to 9.4% in Q3FY2 CEO is confident that credit cost would decline from Q4FY25 SBI Cards would benefit if RBI cuts the repo rate Better asset mix is emerging, with reductions in Stage 2 and Stage 3 compositions and improving delinquencies. HSBC On SBI Card Reduce Call, Target Rs580/Sh Growth Outlook Has Weakened Following Q3 Asset Quality Outlook Remains Unclear Too Cut EPS By 10.8%/11.2% For FY25/FY26 To Reflect Higher Credit Costs. Improvement In Asset Quality Remains Elusive CLSA on MGL Maintain Outperform, TP Rs1,710 Positive surprise on margins beats PAT Volumes comes inline with expectations Lower taxes offset higher than depreciation and interest costs Macquarie on MGL Maintain Outperform, TP Rs1,280 Earnings largely inline-margin miss Believe current decline in margins is prices in and now upside is there Build 8% CAGR volume growth from FY24-27E Risks includes rising input gas prices and further cuts in APM gas allocation Jefferies on IGL Upgrade to Buy from Underperform, TP Rs505 (from Rs295) Co has managed significant volume of long term LNG contracts at attractive prices Raise EPS 52%/55% for FY26/27E See limited near-term impact on ROCE Volume growth in Q3 muted, but outlook remains better CLSA On IGL Outperform Call, Target Rs440/Sh Q3 PAT Was A Big Beat To Est Mgmt Guided For A Healthy 10% Vol Growth Over FY26-27 Mgmt Upgraded Its Unit EBITDA Margin Guidance To Rs7-8/scm From Rs6-7/scm Well-Planned RM Sourcing Should Offset Impact Of Cuts In Cheap Gas Supply This Drives A 6-11% Increase In FY25-27 EPS Price Hikes After Delhi State Elections On 5 Feb May Be A Catalyst MS On Hyundai Overweight Call, Target Rs2,261/sh Co Reported A Weak Set Of Earnings In Q3 Weaker Export Mix And A Rise In Domestic Discounts Post The Festive Season Maintain That Business Is At A Volume & Model-Cycle Trough Model-Cycle Aligned With Capacity Expansion Could Play Out In FY27 Valuations Appear Supportive Citi On Bajaj Auto Sell Call, Target Rs7,900/Sh EBITDA Slightly Ahead Of Estimates Due To Better Gross Margin Mgmt’s Outlook Is Positive Expectations Of 6-8% YoY Volume Growth For 2w Industry Over Near Term Focus Is On Margin Co Has Ceded Mkt Shr In High-Vol But Equally Competitive Entry-Lvl Bikes Segment Rich Valuations Prevent Us From Being More Constructive MS On Bajaj Auto Overweight Call, Target Rs9,951/sh Reported Standalone EBITDA Broadly In-line With Est Mgmt Expects Domestic Motorcycle Ind To See Sustainable Growth Of 6-8% Mgmt Expects More Than 125cc Segment To Grow Faster Co Expects Exports To Grow At 20%+ YoY Going Ahead EV Portfolio, Including The PLI Gains, Is Now EBITDA Positive. Within 2-w, New Chetak 35 Platform Is Supporting Margin Improvement Axis Capital on Bajaj Auto Maintain Sell, TP Rs7,550 (from Rs8,000) Q3 EBITDA largely in line with estimate Exports continued to recover with strong YoY growth in LatAm and sequential growth in Africa Despite new launches, the company lost over 100 bps market share in 9MFY25, which is a concern Cut FY25-27E EPS by 7% on lower volume assumption Nuvama on Bajaj Auto Maintain Buy, TP Rs10,700 EBITDA slightly above estimate- due to better pricing/scale, PLI incentives and cost savings Management has provided a positive volume outlook for the next three–six months With exports growth at 20%-plus and domestic growth of 6–8% 2Ws to clock volume CAGR of 7% over FY25–27E Revenue/EBITDA CAGR of 11%/12% over FY25–27E with an average RoE of ~35% Macquarie on TVS Motors O-p, TP Rs 2857 3Q FY25 saw a modest EBITDA beat led by better gross margin. Believe market-share gains & margin expansion will drive industry-leading earnings growth & stock performance. JPM on TVS Motors OW, TP Rs 3130 Operating results broadly in line Raise margin expectations for FY25 on management’s indication that all PLI benefits for fiscal year will be accounted for in March quarter Were already accounting for PLI benefits in FY26-27 est. UBS on Bosch Sell, TP Rs 23600 Q3FY25 – All round miss Revenues at Rs44.7bn grew 6% YoY. Mobility rev up 2% YoY driven by 9%/24% growth in aftermarket/2W biz while power solutions saw a decline Non-mobility performance was better Gross margins improved 70bps YoY. MS On M&M Fin Equal-Weight, Target Rs285/Sh Stage 3 Coverage Cut From 59.5% To 50% Resulted In A Big PAT Vs. Est However, Slippages Rising & PCR Guided At 51-54% FY2026-27 Credit Costs (On Average Assets) Could Be Higher Than Guided 1.3-1.5% Trim FY26 EPS Even With PCR Assumption Of Less Than 45% HSBC On M&M Fin Buy Call, Target Rs 320 Q3 Slight Miss On Operating Profit; Net Profit Beat Was Due To Release Of Provisions While Ops Trends Are Stabilising, Slight Increase QoQ In Gross Stage 3 Assets Nuvama On M&M Fin Maintain Hold, TP 280 ECL refresh leads to sharp dip in credit cost; PCR falls to 50% CEO reiterated the guidance of 1.3–1.5% credit cost and AUM growth in mid-to-high teens for FY26E ECL reset already baked in, credit cost could remain volatile Citi On Exide Buy Call, Target Rs540/sh Q3 Slightly Above Est, Reflecting Better Gross Margin Demand In Replacement Auto Segment Has Been Strong In Both 2-w & 4-w Sub-Segments Demand In Solar Segment Is Also Strong, Aided By Govt Incentives & Various ‘Solarisation’ Programs However, Demand From Automotive OEMs Remains Muted In Ind Infra Segment Too, Demand Is Weak Due To Lower Govt Spending CLSA on IGL: Upgrade to Outperform on company, raise target price at Rs 505/Sh (Positive) CLSA on MGL: Maintain Outperform on company, target price at Rs 1710/Sh (Positive) MS on Hyundai: Maintain Overweight on Company, target price at Rs 2261/Sh (Positive) Citi on IGL: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 450/Sh (Positive) HSBC on Cipla: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 1800/Sh (Positive) Nomura on Cipla: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 1780/Sh (Positive) HSBC on M&M Fin: Maintain Hold on Company, target price at Rs 320/Sh (Positive) Nomura on CG Power: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 900/Sh (Positive) MS on Suzlon: Maintain Overweight on Company, target price at Rs 71/Sh (Positive) MS on BHEL: Maintain Overweight on Company, target price at Rs 352/Sh (Positive) Macquarie on TVS Motors: Maintain Outperform on Company, target price at Rs 2857/Sh (Positive) JP Morgan on *TVS Motors:*Maintain Overweight on Company, target price at Rs 3130/Sh (Positive) CLSA on Tata Steel: Upgrade to Buy on company, cut target price at Rs 125/Sh (Neutral) Jefferies on Kaynes: Upgrade to Buy on company, cut target price at Rs 5400/Sh (Neutral) Nuvama on M&M Fin: Maintain Hold on Company, target price at Rs 280/Sh (Neutral) GS on SBI Cards: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 912/Sh (Neutral) Nuvama on SBI Cards: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 885/Sh (Neutral) UBS on SBI Cards: Maintain Neutral on Company, target price at Rs 800/Sh (Neutral) CLSA on SBI Cards: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 780/Sh (Neutral) Bernstein on SBI Cards: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 620/Sh (Neutral) Nuvama on Bajaj Auto: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 10700/Sh (Neutral) Axis on Bajaj Auto: Maintain Sell on Company, target price at Rs 7550/Sh (Neutral) Citi on Bajaj Auto: Maintain Sell on Company, target price at Rs 7900/Sh (Neutral) MS on Bajaj Auto: Maintain Overweight on Company, target price at Rs 9951/Sh (Neutral) Macquarie on MGL: Maintain Outperform on company, target price at Rs 1280/Sh (Neutral) Citi on Exide Ind: Maintain Buy on company, target price at Rs 540/Sh (Neutral) MS on Exide Ind: Maintain Overweight on company, target price at Rs 538/Sh (Neutral) Nuvama on M&M Fin: Maintain Hold on Company, target price at Rs 280/Sh (Neutral) MS on M&M Fin: Maintain Equal weight on Company, target price at Rs 285/Sh (Neutral) Citi on Colgate: Maintain Neutral on Company, cut target price at Rs 2600/Sh (Neutral) CLSA on BHEL: Maintain Underperform on Company, target price at Rs 166/Sh (Neutral) Jefferies on ITC: Maintain Buy on Company, target price at Rs 550/Sh (Neutral) CLSA on TVS Motors: Maintain Hold on Company, target price at Rs 2550/Sh (Neutral) UBS on Bosch: Maintain Sell on Company, cut target price at Rs 23600/Sh (Negative) https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.intelegain.rb Conference call Replay available in Various speeds ! Researchbytes Events Update As of 07:55 AM Wednesday 29 January 2025 Can set alert for them at www.researchbytes.com 8:30 AM Star Health and Allied Insurance Dial: +91 22 6280 1341 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/3z5n3tym ( Hosted by Adfactors ) 8:30 AM JM Financial Dial: +91 22 6280 1377 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2xf3v6bs 10:00 AM Ami Organics Dial: +91 22 6280 1366 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4xbspdxw ( Hosted by JM Financial ) 10:00 AM PTC India Fin Dial: +91 22 6280 1567 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4az5rvpr 10:30 AM Syrma SGS Techn (Results) Dial: +91 22 6280 1144 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/3v52dpz6 11:00 AM SAI SILKS Dial: +91 22 6280 1458 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/yn87d37j ( Hosted by HDFC Securities ) 11:00 AM ACME Solar Hold Dial: +91 22 6280 1144 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4jw62xsn ( Hosted by Isec ) 11:00 AM RITES Dial: +91 22 6280 1341 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/3xfdj6m7 11:00 AM Chalet Hotels Dial: +91 22 6280 1436 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/yfmdm6f2 11:00 AM Ideaforge Techn Dial: +91 22 6280 1550 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/22vfvs66 ( Hosted by orientcapital ) 11:00 AM MAP MY INDIA Dial: 022 6280 1386 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2bktfk5e 11:30 AM Vascon Engineer Dial: +91 22 6280 1256 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/325jncpn 12:00 PM Jindal Drilling Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/3mdfe7nm 12:00 PM Motilal Oswal Dial: +91 22 6280 1118 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2nu9pnn8 12:00 PM VIP Industries Dial: +91 22 6280 1341 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/8wsdpufh ( Hosted by Adfactors ) 2:00 PM ACC Dial: +91 22 6280 1123 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2rk8a7rb 2:00 PM Ambuja Cements Dial: +91 22 6280 1123 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4ppf86yt 2:00 PM CarTrade Tech Dial: +91 22 6280 1309 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4vphn76f 2:00 PM Apcotex Ind Dial: +91 22 6280 1341 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/3p5es5ed ( Hosted by Valorem ) 2:00 PM SIS Dial: +91 22 6280 1457 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/58ce63h5 2:30 PM Music Broadcast Private Dial: +91 22 6280 1309 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/bdhxpu9f 2:30 PM RR Kabel L Dial: +91 22 6280 1550 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2h5ty3f7 3:00 PM Nucleus Softwar No Contact Available Please check again for details @ www.researchbytes.com 3:30 PM Guj Flourochem Dial: +91 22 6280 1222 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/ysjczbtm 3:30 PM v-guard industries Dial: +91 22 6280 1245 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4p3kd7k3 3:30 PM Rushil Decor Dial: +91 22 6280 1317 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/y4vk7rsd 3:30 PM OneSource Speci Dial: +91 22 6280 1488 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2tfpck57 4:00 PM TeamLease Ser. Dial: +91 22 6280 1458 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/kbxhuhu5 4:00 PM eMudhra Dial: +91 22 6280 1106 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/mvueacmr 4:00 PM Steelcast Dial: +91 22 6280 1107 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2wv94bwt 4:00 PM Punjab Chemical Dial: +91 22 6280 1342 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/5yf2e7au 4:00 PM Home First Fina Dial: +91 22 6280 1382 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/4txkpsp4 4:00 PM PDS Limited Dial: +91 22 6280 1490 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2j55pp8y 4:00 PM Shyam Metalics And Energy Dial: +91 22 6280 1550 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/ysw3f423 4:00 PM Trishakti Elect Dial: 086 3416 8602 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2dch9kby 4:30 PM Mahanagar Gas Dial: +91 22 6280 1342 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/anhm28ba 5:00 PM Maruti Suzuki No Contact Available Please check again for details @ www.researchbytes.com 5:00 PM GMR Infra No Contact Available Please check again for details @ www.researchbytes.com 5:00 PM Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Dial: +91 22 6280 1102 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/2ahd67xt 5:00 PM Orient Electric Dial: +91 22 6280 1148 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/yc5r4ws8 ( Hosted by Ambit Capital P ) 5:00 PM Baazar Style Re Dial: +91 22 6280 1256 Weblink: https://tinyurl.com/42de3k58 https://x.com/_sbisecurities/status/1884230904954118261?s=46&t=tAv0kfCQeNv0krS0GhVFNQ View & Valuation: At CMP, the stock is trading at a P/E multiple of 41.9x/28.6x of its FY25E/FY26E Bloomberg consensus earnings. The overall performance is strong and is in-line with market expectation. We expect the stock to outperform in medium to long term. The near-term price range would be Rs 55-60 https://x.com/_sbisecurities/status/1884256313703530691?s=46&t=tAv0kfCQeNv0krS0GhVFNQ View and Valuation: The company reported numbers below consensus estimates largely impacted by the sharp dip in KTM export volumes during the quarter. The upcoming product launches/upgrades in both the 2W and 3W segment are expected to drive volume growth in the domestic market while exports continue to improve. At CMP of Rs 8,422, the stock trades at FY25E/FY26E P/E multiple of 26.9x/22.9x. Expect the stock to touch Rs 9,000-9,150 in the medium term Ami Organics: Net profit at Rs 454 cr vs Rs 178 cr, Revenue at Rs. 2750 cr vs Rs 1664 cr (YoY) (Positive) Syrma SGS: Net profit at Rs 53 cr vs Rs 20 cr, Revenue at Rs. 870 cr vs Rs 706 cr (YoY) (Positive) Sai Silk: Net profit at Rs 46 cr vs Rs 32 cr, Revenue at Rs. 448 cr vs Rs 382 cr (YoY) (Positive) Dynamic Cables: Net profit at Rs 15.8 cr vs Rs 7.5 cr, Revenue at Rs. 251 cr vs Rs 192 cr (YoY) (Positive) MGL: Net profit at Rs 225.0 cr versus poll of Rs 185.0 cr, Revenue at Rs 1758 cr versus poll of Rs 1752 cr (Positive) TVS Holdings: Net profit at Rs 685 cr vs Rs 532 cr, Revenue at Rs. 11,476 cr vs Rs 9220 cr (YoY) (Positive) Suzlon Energy: Net profit at Rs 387 cr vs Rs 203 cr, Revenue at Rs. 2968.8 cr vs Rs 1553 cr (YoY) (Positive) Home First: Net profit at Rs 98 cr vs Rs 78 cr, NII at Rs. 213 cr vs Rs 166 cr (YoY) (Positive) SIS: Net profit at Rs 10.2 cr vs Rs 2.7 cr, Revenue at Rs. 336.0 cr vs Rs 307.0 cr (YoY) (Positive) KRN Heat: Net profit at Rs 13.4 cr vs Rs 7.9 cr, Revenue at Rs. 116.0 cr vs Rs 67.0 cr (YoY) (Positive) GMR Airports: Net profit at ₹202.1 cr vs loss of ₹486.4 cr, Revenue at ₹2,653.2 cr vs ₹2,226.7 cr (YoY) Positive) Som Dist: Net profit at Rs 21.5 cr vs Rs 18.0 cr, Revenue at Rs. 562.0 cr vs Rs 501.0 cr (YoY) (Positive) M&M Finance: Net profit at Rs 899 cr vs Rs 553 cr, NII at Rs. 1911 cr vs Rs 1698 cr (YoY) (Positive) Sharika Ent: Company wins order of Rs 15.57 Cr, contract by NHPC Limited (Positive) TVS Motors: Expects the EV 3W category to grow significantly in the coming months (Positive) Autoline Industries: Company announced a substantial purchase order from Mahindra & Mahindra valued at approximately Rs 30 Crores. (Positive) Bharat Parenterals: Receipt of an order amounting to $27 Million (approximately INR 232 Crores) for supply of high demand pharmaceutical products over a period of 18-24 months. (Positive) Rane Engines: CRISIL has continued its credit ratings for the company’s bank facilities totaling Rs. 220 crore. (Positive) Piramal Pharma: Net profit down 63.4% at ₹3.7 cr vs ₹10.1 cr, Revenue up 12.5% at ₹2,204.2 cr vs ₹1,958.6 cr (YoY). (Neutral) Colgate: Net profit at Rs 322.8 cr vs Rs 330.1 cr, Revenue at Rs. 1461.8 cr vs Rs 1386 cr (YoY) (Neutral) UTI AMC: Net profit at Rs 150.7 cr vs Rs 185.7 cr, Revenue at Rs. 417.6 cr vs Rs 449 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Rane Brake: Net profit at Rs 9.5 cr vs Rs 10.1 cr, Revenue at Rs. 185.3 cr vs Rs 164.3 cr (YoY) (Neutral) V-Guard Industries: Net profit at Rs 60 cr vs Rs 58 cr, Revenue at Rs. 1269 cr vs Rs 1165 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Bosch: Net profit at Rs 458 cr vs Rs 518 cr, Revenue at Rs. 4466 cr vs Rs 4205 cr (YoY) (Neutral) PTC India Financial Services: Net profit at Rs 67.15 cr vs Rs 50.40 cr, Revenue at Rs. 158 cr vs Rs 220 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Le Travenues: Net profit at Rs 15.5 cr vs Rs 31 cr, Revenue at Rs. 214 cr vs Rs 170 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Jost’s Engineering: Net profit at Rs 4.16 cr vs Rs 3.3 cr, Revenue at Rs. 52.0 cr vs Rs 46.4 cr (YoY) (Neutral) eMudhra: Net profit at Rs 22.4 cr vs Rs 20.0 cr, Revenue at Rs. 139 cr vs Rs 97.0 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Exide India: Net profit at Rs 245 cr vs Rs 240.3 cr, Revenue at Rs. 3846.6 cr vs Rs 3840.5 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Bajaj Auto: Net profit at Rs 2018.7 cr vs Rs 2042 cr, Revenue at Rs. 12807 cr vs Rs 12114 cr (YoY) (Neutral) BHEL: Net profit at Rs 125.0 cr versus poll of Rs 129.0 cr, Revenue at Rs 7277 cr versus poll of Rs 6751 cr (Neutral) SBI Card: Net profit at Rs 383.2 cr vs Rs 549.1cr, Revenues at Rs 3790.1 cr vs Rs 3926.2 cr (YoY) (Neutral) CE Info: Net profit at Rs 32.3 cr vs Rs 31 cr, Revenue at Rs 114.5 cr vs Rs 92 cr (YoY) (Neutral) Sarthak Global: Company announced the re-appointment of Mr. Sunil Gangrade as a Whole-time Director for three years, starting March 1, 2025. (Neutral) IDFC First: Bank appoints Nitin Chauhan as Chief Information Security Officer of the bank w.e.f. January 28, 2025. (Neutral) JSW Infra: Raise capex guidance to Rs 39,000 cr vs Rs 30,000 cr earlier (Neutral) Home First: Board approves to raise Rs 1250 cr through QIP (Neutral) ITC: ITC Hotels to list on NSE & BSE on January 29, 2025 (Neutral) NMDC: Company to invest ₹70,000 crore for capacity ramp-up by 2030. (Neutral) Kotak Mahindra Bank: Launches BizLabs Accelerator to propel startups toward scalable growth. (Neutral) JSW Steel: Extends Long Stop Date for Acquisition Of 92.19% Stake of Minas de Revuboe Buyout to June 30, 2025 (Neutral) JSW Energy: Net profit at Rs 167.8 crore versus 232.0 crore, Revenue at Rs 2400 crore versus poll of Rs 2542 crore (Negative) Star Health: Net Profit at Rs 215.1 Cr Vs Rs 289.6 Cr, Net Earned at 15.4% at Rs 3,799.7 Cr Vs Rs 3,293.6 Cr (YoY). (Negative) VIP Ind: Net loss at Rs 12.4 cr vs profit of Rs 7.2 cr, Revenue down 8.3% at Rs 501 cr vs Rs 546.4 cr (YoY) (Negative) Power stocks: Power producers face Rs 1,000-crore loss as CERC bars payment till plants begin ops: media reports (Negative)🪴 Shares of Denta Water and Infra Solutions will be listed today. The company has fixed the IPO price at ₹294, at the upper end of the price band ₹279-294. According to GMP, the stock is expected to list with a premium of about ₹60-75. Read more Market regulator SEBI on Tuesday “returned” letters written by Florida-based serial entrepreneur Digvijay ‘Danny’ Gaekwad seeking permission to launch a “competing offer” to the open offer made by Burman Group to acquire a controlling stake in Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL). In a filing, REL shared SEBI’s response to Gaekwad’s intent to acquire 55 per cent of REL at ₹275 per share. Burmans’ open offer to acquire an additional 26 per cent stake from the open market commenced on January 27 at ₹235 a share Read more Equity markets are expected to open on a flattish to positive note on Wednesday amid mixed global cues. Gift Nifty at 23,030 indicates a margin gain of about 40 points for Nifty at open. The mood is still downbeat among participants with Q3 results from India Inc so far either on expected lines or below market expectations. The focus has now shifted to two major events - FOMC meeting scheduled tomorrow and Union Budget 2025 on February 1. The unabated selling by foreign portfolio investors and the bloodbath in the mid and small-cap segments is a cause for concern, investors said. Read more “With inflation showing no signs of abating within the Reserve Bank of India’s target range in the near future, I believe the finance minister will implement necessary policy measures to curb price increases. This could involve reducing taxes on consumer goods such as packaged food and edible oils. This would boost household disposable income and positively impact private consumption. Furthermore, I believe the Budget should include measures to encourage savings through tax rationalisation and stimulate loan growth. A separate announcement on developing future-proof digital infrastructure for the financial sector in the era of artificial intelligence is also anticipated,” “Under the visionary leadership of Honourable Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi, the Government of India has achieved significant milestones in housing through the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). Expanding the programme to include 2 crore additional rural houses and 1 crore urban houses by FY 2024-29 highlights the government’s dedication to uplifting marginalised communities. Further policy interventions, such as enhanced subsidies for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS), can reduce financial barriers and improve access to quality housing. To advance the Government of India’s vision of ‘Housing for All,’ incorporating affordable housing for EWS under Schedule VII of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) provisions in The Companies Act will empower corporates entities and foundations to contribute to affordable housing initiatives. Encouraging public, private banks and financial institutions to prioritise affordable housing loans; introducing preferential interest rates and affordable repayment options (EMIs) for such loans will advance access to affordable housing. Additionally, blending CSR funds with government grants can address funding gaps. We advocate for a Public Private People Partnership (P4) model to foster effective collaboration among stakeholders. This will accelerate progress toward ‘Housing for All’ and support inclusive, sustainable development aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” “The current tax framework, while serving its purpose, could benefit from greater flexibility to better support middle-class taxpayers, especially in areas like home loan interest deductions and investments under Section 80C. The ₹2,00,000 cap on home loan interest deductions for self-occupied properties, set in 2019, has not kept pace with inflation and rising property prices. As a result, many middle-class taxpayers may find it challenging to fully benefit from this deduction. Similarly, the Section 80C limit of ₹1,50,000, which has remained unchanged for almost a decade, may not be sufficient for salaried individuals, especially given that a significant portion of this limit is often absorbed by provident fund contributions, leaving limited room for other investments. To further support taxpayers, it would be beneficial to consider increasing the home loan interest deduction and revising the Section 80C limit to better reflect current economic conditions. Additionally, expanding these enhanced deductions, particularly under section 80C, to the new tax regime under Section 115BAC would offer more inclusivity, allowing taxpayers to benefit from lower tax rates while still having the flexibility to optimize their financial planning. This would not only ease financial burdens but also encourage homeownership, increase savings, and contribute to overall economic growth.” “The Union Budget 2025 is anticipated to prioritise India’s transition to a sustainable energy future by boosting investments in renewable energy infrastructure, green financing, and emerging technologies like green hydrogen. Measures to ease financial barriers to rooftop solar adoption, strengthen the National Solar Portal, and incentivise battery energy storage systems are expected to drive growth. Enhanced support for electric mobility and sustainable aviation fuels could further align India with its Net-Zero ambitions. Additionally, expanded tax incentives for green debt securities and clear policies for carbon markets are likely to attract investments, driving progress towards achieving India’s renewable energy capacity target and Net Zero target”. “The Union Budget 2025 holds immense significance for India’s manufacturing sector as the country strives to achieve its $2 trillion export target by 2030. To enhance global competitiveness, we expect measures such as tariff rationalization, duty exemptions, and expanded remission schemes to lower production costs and boost exports. Simplifying compliance procedures is also crucial to streamline operations and attract greater foreign investments. Targeted incentives for high-value manufacturing sectors like electronics and precision machinery, alongside support for labour-intensive industries such as textiles, footwear, and food processing, can drive rural development and create widespread employment. Additionally, fostering innovation by adopting Industry 4.0 technologies such as AI, digital twins, and 3D printing will position India as a hub for advanced manufacturing. We hope the budget introduces a visionary roadmap that propels the sector toward sustainability, agility, and leadership in global supply chains, fuelling inclusive economic growth” “The transport and logistics industry needs continued support from the government. To support the transport and logistics industry, TDS exemptions should be reconsidered given the low-margin nature of the business (3-4%) and long payment cycles. While exemptions exist for owners with fewer than 10 vehicles, customers still deduct TDS fearing non-compliance. Faster depreciation for EV trucks is essential to encourage adoption, alongside fiscal benefits to develop EV fast-charging infrastructure on highways to address range anxiety and save drivers’ time. A comprehensive fiscal policy, in collaboration with the Ministry of Transport, is needed to promote LNG trucks, ensuring cleaner logistics and lower costs. Additionally, the GST process must be more transparent and faceless for efficiency.” “India’s strength lies in its people and the country has opportunities for the youth. We expect that the government will continue to prioritize skill development and job creation to tap into India’s demographic advantage, which will drive economic growth and increase consumption through higher incomes. While the challenge of inflation, particularly food inflation continues to remain a concern, there is a need to implement robust supply-side measures to reduce the pain. We expect to see a focus on long-term solutions to strengthen the agricultural value chain and incentivize production. In the short term, direct benefit transfers (DBTs) may help support rural consumption. Infrastructure development will also remain a key priority, with continued investment in roads, multi-modal logistics parks, and overall logistics. Additionally, the government will emphasize healthcare, education, and skills development, while also promoting innovative technologies for inclusivity, formalization, and transparent governance. As India aims to become a Viksit Bharat by 2047, sustained investment in social, physical, and digital infrastructure will be crucial for future growth.” AAVAS, ADANIENT, ADANIPORTS, AJANTPHARM, ASTRAL, AVL,BAJAJFINSV, BAJAJHLDNG, BANKBARODA, BEL, BIOCON, CARERATING, CHEMFAB, CLEAN, COROMANDEL, DABUR, DEEPINDS, DODLA, ELCIDIN, GAIL, GREENLAM, HAWKINCOOK, HEIDELBERG, HESTERBIO, INDGN, JINDALSTEL, JISLJALEQS, JITFINFRA, JTEKTINDIA, JYOTIRES, KALYANKJIL, LALPATHLAB, LT, MANYAVAR, MAXHEALTH, MOSCHIP, NAVINFLUOR, NESCO, PARAGMILK, PAUSHAKLTD, PHOENIXLTD, POKARNA, POLICYBZR, PRAJIND, PRESTIGE, PRICOLLTD, PROTEAN, RAYMONDLSL, SHANTIGEAR, SHILCTECH, SHREECEM, SJS, STAR, STARCEMENT, STYRENIX, SUBROS, VOLTAMP, WAAREEENER, WELSPUNLIV ADANIENT YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 29727 crore versus Rs 28336 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 5509 crore versus Rs 3227 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 18.53% versus 11.39% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 1719 crore versus Rs 1888 crore ADANIPORTS YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 7232 crore versus Rs 6920 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 4443 crore versus Rs 4293 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 61.44% versus 62.04% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 2632 crore versus Rs 2208 crore ASTRAL YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 1500 crore versus Rs 1370 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 230 crore versus Rs 205 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 15.33% versus 14.97% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 129 crore versus Rs 113 crore BAJAJFINASV QoQ * Revenue expected at Rs 30357 crore versus Rs 33703 crore * EBIT expected to be seen at Rs 5953 crore versus Rs 12011 crore * EBIT margin expected to be seen at 19.61% versus 35.64% [7:19 am, 29/1/2025] KS BadriNarayanan: BANKBARODA YoY * NII expected at Rs 11973 crore versus Rs 11101 crore * EBIT expected to be seen at Rs 7783 crore versus Rs 6348 crore * EBIT margin expected to be seen at 55.95% versus 45.64% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 4495 crore versus Rs 4579 crore BEL YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 4850 crore versus Rs 4142 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 1176 crore versus Rs 1072 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 24.25% versus 25.89% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 946 crore versus Rs 859 crore BIOCON YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 3923 crore versus Rs 3953 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 840 crore versus Rs 926 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 21.41% versus 23.44% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 153 crore versus Rs 638 crore COROMANDEL YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 6213 crore versus Rs 5464 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 667 crore versus Rs 357 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 10.74% versus 6.54% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 423 crore versus Rs 213 crore DABUR YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 3349 crore versus Rs 3255 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 666 crore versus Rs 667 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 19.87% versus 20.52% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 507 crore versus Rs 514 crore MAXHEALTH YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 2148 crore versus Rs 1335 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 563 crore versus Rs 386 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 26.21% versus 28.90% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 362 crore versus Rs 289 crore NAVINFLUOR YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 585 crore versus Rs 513 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 129 crore versus Rs 127 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 22.05% versus 24.88% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 71 crore versus Rs 25 crore PRESTIGE YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 2352 crore versus Rs 1795 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 784 crore versus Rs 551 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 33.33% versus 30.71% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 197 crore versus Rs 116 crore AARTIDRUGS, ABDL, ACMESOLAR, ADANIPOWER, AMBUJACEM, ARVSMART, ASAHIINDIA, ASKAUTOLTD, BAJFINANCE, BANSALWIRE, BLUEDART, BLUEJET, BLUESTARCO, BRIGADE, CAMS, CARTRADE, CHALET, CHOICEIN, CRAFTSMAN, DATAMATICS, DEEPAKFERT, ECLERX, FILATEX, FINOPB, FLUOROCHEM, GABRIEL, IMFA, INDIANB, JBMA, JKPAPER, JSL, JWL, KPITTECH, MARUTI, MASFIN, OLECTRA, ONESOURCE, ORIENTELEC, POWERINDIA, QUESS, RADICO, RAMRAT, RANEENGINE, RAYMOND, RBA, SAMHI, SMCGLOBAL, SRF, TATAMOTORS, TEAMLEASE, TMB, USHAMART, VAIBHAVGBL, VOLTAS, VSSL, WEL, WESTLIFE AMBUJACEM YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 8510 crore versus Rs 8128 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 1483 crore versus Rs 1732 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 17.43% versus 21.31% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 762 crore versus Rs 823 crore BAJFINANCE YoY * NII expected at Rs 10381 crore versus Rs 7655 crore * EBIT expected to be seen at Rs 7436 crore versus Rs 6143 crore * EBIT margin expected to be seen at 59.12% versus 66.06% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 4127 crore versus Rs 3639 crore MARUTI YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 38726 crore versus Rs 33308 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 4498 crore versus Rs 3907 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 11.61% versus 11.73% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 3687 crore versus Rs 3130 crore SRF YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 3387 crore versus Rs 3053 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 565 crore versus Rs 565 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 16.68% versus 18.53% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 223 crore versus Rs 253 crore TATAMOTORS YoY * Revenue expected at Rs 116912 crore versus Rs 110577 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 15772 crore versus Rs 15418 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 13.90% versus 13.94% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 6643 crore versus Rs 7113 crore VOLTAS QoQ * Revenue expected at Rs 3024 crore versus Rs 2619 crore * EBITDA expected to be seen at Rs 205 crore versus Rs 162 crore * EBITDA margin expected to be seen at 6.78% versus 6.19% * Net profit expected to be seen at Rs 157 crore versus Rs 134 crore Current: 104.1 Expected: 105.7 Previous: 104.7 (Data seen lower than estimates) Current: -2.2% Expected: 0.3% Previous: -1.2% (Data trailed with estimates) 28 January 2025 (Rs. In Crs.) Turnover: (NSE + BSE) Cash Volume: 115503.17 + 6401.46 Total: 121904.63 F&O Volume: 13864096.62 + 34142179.63 Total: 48006276.25 Provisional Cash FII/FPI: NET SELL: -4920.69 (11165.86 – 16086.55) DII: NET BUY: +6814.33 (19735.28 – 12920.95) Net profit at Rs 125.0 crore versus poll of Rs 129.0 crore Revenue at Rs 7277 crore versus poll of Rs 6751 crore EBITDA at Rs 304.3 crore versus poll of Rs 290.0 crore EBITDA margin at 4.2% versus poll of 4.3% (Numbers in line with the estimates) Net profit at Rs 2018 crore versus poll of Rs 2128 crore Revenue at Rs 12807 crore versus poll of Rs 12963 crore EBITDA at Rs 2581 crore versus poll of Rs 2545 crore EBITDA margin at 20.2% versus poll of 19.6% (Numbers in line with the estimates) ASML Holding N.V. (Pre market) (Sector- Technology) T-Mobile US, Inc (Pre market) (Sector- Technology) Danaher Corporation (Pre market) (Sector- Healthcare) Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Pre market) (Sector- Technology) General Dynamics Corporation (Pre market) (Sector- Defense) Norfolk Southern Corporation (Pre market) (Sector- Logistics) MSCI Inc. (Pre market) (Sector- Financial) Nasdaq, Inc. (Pre market) (Sector- Financial) Corning Incorporated (Pre market) (Sector- Technology) Hess Corporation (Pre market) (Sector- Energy) Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Pre market) (Sector- Healthcare) Microsoft Corporation (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Meta Platforms, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Tesla, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Automobiles) ServiceNow, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Technology) International Business Machines Corporation (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Lam Research Corporation (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Waste Management, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Commercial Services) Canadian Pacific Kansas City Limited (Post market) (Sector- Logistics) AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLC (Post market) (Sector- Financial) United Rentals, Inc (Post market) (Sector- Capital Goods) Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Financial) Las Vegas Sands Corp. (Post market) (Sector- Hotels) Western Digital Corporation (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Teradyne, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Technology) Celestica, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Technology) C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (Post market) (Sector- Logistics) Rockwell Automation, Inc. (TENT) (Sector- Capital Goods) Markel Group Inc (TENT) (Sector- Financial) China, Taiwan and South Korea, Hong Kong @ Market Holiday 19.00 U.S. Goods Trade Balance (Expected: -105.7B versus Previous: -102.9B) 19.45 U.K. BOE Gov Bailey Speaks 00.30 U.S. Federal Funds Rate (Expected: 4.50% versus Previous: 4.50%) 01.00 U.S. FOMC Press Conference The stock of Tech Mahindra, after seeing some moderation in price in the second half of December, has largely stayed flat since the start of this month. It has been oscillating in the range of ₹1,635-1,725. This week, the scrip declined, and it closed at ₹1,645.50 on Tuesday. Nevertheless, the broader trend has been bullish, and since it is now near the lower boundary of the range, there is a good chance for a rally to ₹1,725. Read more Comments BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments. We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions | Institutional Subscriber
--------------------------------------------------

Title: AI Stocks and Their Impact on the Stock Market: Hype or Reality?
URL: https://stockcharts.com/articles/chartwatchers/2025/01/ai-stocks-and-their-impact-on-548.html
Time Published: 2025-01-28T23:21:22Z
Description: The week started with a wild ride when DeepSeek created a bizarre "deep sink" day in the stock market. NVIDIA Corp. (NVDA) was one of the most actively traded stocks, closing lower by 16.97%. The stock lost $593 billion in market cap, which, according to Barr…
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Stock market today: Nasdaq jumps to chip away at DeepSeek-fueled rout as Nvidia surges nearly 9%
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-nasdaq-jumps-to-chip-away-at-deepseek-fueled-rout-as-nvidia-surges-nearly-9-210344963.html
Time Published: 2025-01-28T21:03:44Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. The Nasdaq and S&P 500 rebounded on Tuesday, following a steep stock sell-off spurred by Chinese startup DeepSeek and the ripple effect its potentially cheaper AI model could have on Big Tech. Bellwether Nvidia (NVDA) was the standout of the trading day, with shares finishing the day up nearly 9% after it shaved off a record $589 billion from its market cap in the previous session. Aided by Nvidia's gains, the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) surged over 2%, coming off a closing loss of more than 3%. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose around 0.9%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained roughly 0.3%. Notably, the tech sector notched its biggest two-day reversal in over two years after it notched its worst day since March 2020 on Monday. Stocks began to chip away at losses booked in Monday's tech-led rout, which came as buzz built for DeepSeek's potentially cheaper AI model. That risk to US leadership in AI raised questions about whether chipmakers and other tech names can follow through on high earnings expectations. With the DeepSeek risk in mind, focus is tighter on Big Tech earnings coming this week, with results from Apple (AAPL), Tesla (TSLA), Meta (META), and Microsoft (MSFT) on the docket. Investors also assessed a tougher tone on tariffs from President Donald Trump as markets look ahead to the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision on Wednesday where the impact of his policies will likely be discussed. The central bank is expected to leave interest rates unchanged, given recent solid economic readings. The dollar (DX=F) strengthened after renewed tariff threats from Trump that revived worries about a trade war, already in focus after a brief standoff with Colombia. Trump said he wants universal tariffs "much bigger" than the 2.5% his incoming Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent, reportedly plans to introduce gradually. Starbucks (SBUX) stock rose over 4% in after-hours trading on Tuesday after the coffee giant reported earnings that beat estimates on both the top and bottom lines. Same-store sales declined for the fourth consecutive quarter as the company looks to continue its recent turnaround plan. “While we have room for improvement, we’re making progress as planned, and have confidence we’re on the right track,” Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol said in a video released Tuesday afternoon. The company’s same-store sales, a key metric for restaurant chains, fell 4% year over year in the reported quarter, with traffic to its stores declining by 6%. Wall Street had expected same-store sales and foot traffic to decline by 5.30% and 7.28%, respectively, year over year. Outside of domestic markets, same-store sales also declined 4%, while sales in China — the company's second-largest market — fell by 6%. Stocks closed in the green on Tuesday as the Nasdaq and S&P 500 rebounded from Monday's steep sell-off spurred by Chinese startup DeepSeek and its potentially cheaper AI model. Bellwether Nvidia (NVDA) finished the day up nearly 9% after it shaved off a record $589 billion from its market cap on Monday. Aided by Nvidia's gains, the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) surged over 2%, coming off a closing loss of more than 3%. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose around 0.9%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained roughly 0.3%. The fourth volume of Yahoo Finance's Chartbook, released on Tuesday, tells the story of markets and economy through 44 charts. And given that we ask a broad question about what the most important chart is for investors right now, there's sometimes a takeaway in what respondents don't send. After the past several versions of this book included many charts making the case for interest rate cuts, there was little discussion of further easing from the Federal Reserve throughout our latest collection of charts. Dynamic Economic Strategy CEO John Silvia's submission helps explain why. Silvia pointed out that at 4.1%, the unemployment rate is hovering near where the Fed expects it to end this year, while private payroll growth has come off the boil. To Silvia, this shows a labor market that may be normalizing right in the area the Fed would like it to stay. This, Silvia said, provides "less room for the Fed to ease as job/economic growth continues to move ahead and long-run full employment is on the horizon." With inflation relatively sticky and the labor market holding up OK, many economists right now seem more interested in Trump's policies. Specifically the focus centers around how tariffs could impact inflation, and therefore Fed policy, before making further conclusions on the path forward for interest rates. Check out the full Yahoo Finance Chartbook here. Some breaking news that's not related to DeepSeek or Wall Street's AI trades: The Container Store has emerged from bankruptcy. Yahoo Finance's Brooke DiPalma has the latest: The struggling home goods store emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Tuesday, Yahoo Finance learned exclusively. In a release, the company said it "achieved the objectives it set for this process" in late December. That includes refinancing its short-term debt, reducing "previous long-term debt obligations," gaining access to $40 million in new money financing, and "modifying its asset-backed lending facility to add $40 million in upsized capacity." Throughout the process, the business operated as usual across stores, online, and in-home services. It was also able to "[meet] its obligations to vendors, employees and customers." No employees were let go, but the company did close down two stores since the bankruptcy filing. The closings were separate from the bankruptcy process. Formerly under the ticker TCSG, the company is now private after the restructuring process. For the quarter ended Sept. 28, 2024, the Container Store listed total liabilities of $836.4 million against $969 million in total assets. Read more here. Nvidia (NVDA) rose as much as 7% Tuesday afternoon as tech stocks rebounded from a sharp sell-off. The AI chip giant bounced back from its 17% drop on Monday sparked by investor anxiety related to a new AI model recently launched by Chinese startup DeepSeek. The artificial intelligence assistant, seen as more efficient and less expensive than its American-made rivals, spooked investor sentiment over AI dominance in the US and raised questions about valuations and spending. AI-exposed power stocks attempted a rebound on Tuesday after getting crushed in the tech rout prompted by fears that energy demand for the artificial intelligence boom may be ahead of its skies. Constellation Energy (CEG), the largest nuclear plant operator in the US was relatively flat after tumbling 21% during the prior session. Electricity generator Vistra Corp (VST) rose more than 4% after sinking by a record 28%. Power equipment maker and servicer GE Vernova (GEV) also gained 2%, retracing a fraction of its one-day 21% drop. AI-exposed energy stocks were recovering from a beating on Monday after Chinese startup DeepSeek released a new AI model viewed as more competitive and energy-efficient compared to its US rivals. The sell-off rattled investors given the optimism over electricity needs to power the booming AI data center industry. Power stocks are coming off a ripping rally in 2024 and start of the year. Paul Zimbardo, managing director for US power utilities & clean energy research at Jeffrries, said data center deployment is "very likely intact" in the medium term as the race remains "on." The question going forward is what happens in the later part of the decade and 2030s. "Does that trend accelerate in the future? Does it kind of stabilize and even see some moderation of demand growth out later in the decade?" asked the analyst. Yahoo Finance's Ben Werschkul reports: New mixed messages this week about President Donald Trump's implementation of tariffs are flummoxing markets and businesses hoping for quick clarity on the 2.0 version of Trump's trade policy. The main point of confusion is that public signals from Trump’s orbit often appear at odds with Trump himself. The sometimes contradictory back and forth — a feature of the debate around tariffs since Trump's win — is taking on an outsized importance with the approach of Trump’s self-imposed Feb. 1 deadline, whe he has promised to install 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico and 10% duties on China. Read more here. OpenAI on Tuesday announced a new tailored version of ChatGPT designed for US government agencies, a product launch that comes as the industry is still reeling from the breakout of a cost-efficient Chinese AI startup and as President Trump has urged tech companies to stay ahead of the competition. OpenAI says the new service, ChatGPT Gov, is meant to streamline the government's access to its models and it will give staffers the ability to better manage their own security and compliance as agencies handle sensitive data. "By making our products available to the U.S. government, we aim to ensure AI serves the national interest and the public good, aligned with democratic values, while empowering policymakers to responsibly integrate these capabilities to deliver better services to the American people," the company said in a statement unveiling the new tool. Read more about ChatGPT Gov's product launch here. Tech stocks led the major averages higher on Tuesday with the Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) gaining more than 1% on Tuesday. Apple (AAPL), an outlier during Monday's tech rout, extended gains to rise more than 3%. Amazon (AMZN), Alphabet (GOOGL,GOOG), and Microsoft (MSFT) also rose. AI chip heavyweight Nvidia (NVDA) rose more than 2% in early trading, retracing a fraction of its 17% plunge from the prior session. JetBlue (JBLU) shares fell as much as 22% on Tuesday, their biggest drop since 2020 after the air carrier posted disappointing first quarter outlook for revenue per available seat mile (RASM). For the current three month period, JetBlue forecasts revenue per available seat mile between a decline of 0.5% and an increase of 3.5%, versus estimates for growth above 4%. JetBlue's fourth quarter loss came in narrower than expected, at an adjusted loss per share of $0.21, versus estimates for - $0.31. The domestic low-cost carrier also faces higher costs. JetBlue has faced a number of challenges over the past year, including a blocked merger with peer Spirit in 2024. US home prices hit a record high in November as the pace of price increases picked up. The S&P Case-Shiller National Home Price Index rose 3.8% from a year earlier in November on a seasonally adjusted basis, higher than the 3.6% annual increase in October. The data captures a three-month period through November when mortgage rates were climbing toward 7%, providing little relief for would-be buyers in a seasonally slower selling season. Despite the rise in borrowing costs, the national index hit a record high for the 18th consecutive month on a seasonally adjusted basis. Still, on a monthly basis, prices ticked up 0.4% over the prior month in November, up from October's 0.3% monthly increase. Brian D. Luke, head of commodities at S&P CoreLogic, said in a statement, “With the exception of pockets of above-trend performance, national home prices are trending below historical averages.” The index tracking home prices in the 20 largest metropolitan areas gained 4.3% in November from a year earlier, compared with a 4.2% increase in the previous month, according to S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller data. New York remained the top state for annual gains, with a 7.3% increase. The Nasdaq and S&P 500 attempted to recover on Tuesday from a sharp tech-led rout prompted by AI worries. The Federal Reserve two-day policy meeting which started earlier in the morning was also in focus for investors. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) rose more than 0.4% after sliding 3% in the prior session. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) gained 0.2%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) hovered near the flatline. AI chip giant Nvidia (NVDA) rose more than 2%, attempting to recover from a 17% plunge in the prior session as the buzz around Chinese startup DeepSeek raised questions of overvaluation and spending in much of the US artificial intelligence space. Investors are keeping a close eye on any additional tariff talk from President Trump and how that may impact economic growth. The market now awaits the Federal Reserve's policy decision expected on Wednesday afternoon following their two-day meeting. Yahoo Finance's Laura Bratton reports: Nvidia (NVDA) stock rose 2.5% pre-market Tuesday as the AI chipmaker began to recover from a massive decline the prior day that shaved nearly $600 billion off its market cap. Nvidia’s 17% free-fall Monday was prompted by investor anxieties related to a new, cost-effective AI model from the Chinese startup DeepSeek. Some Wall Street analysts worried that the cheaper costs DeepSeek claimed to have spent training its latest AI models, due in part to using fewer AI chips, meant US firms were overspending on artificial intelligence infrastructure. Nvidia’s $589 billion market cap decline was the largest single-day loss in stock market history. The DeepSeek announcements drove down not only Nvidia but the market at large, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq dropping 3%. Chip stocks dropped across the board Monday but began to recover Tuesday morning. Read more here. Yahoo Finance's Brian Sozzi reports: General Motors (GM) chair and CEO Mary Barra has made her case on tariffs to President Trump. "We've done a lot of scenario planning and we know the levers that we can pull to minimize any impact. But, having the opportunity to talk to the president, I really believe he wants a strong manufacturing sector because it's good for the economy," Barra told Yahoo Finance on Tuesday. GM on its earnings release today said it assumes a "stable" policy environment. Its full-year 2025 EPS guidance of $11 to $12 was ahead of consensus forecasts for $10.75 and doesn't assume any impact of additional tariffs. Read more here. Economic data: Durable goods orders (December); FHFA house price index (November), S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller home prices (November); Conference Board Consumer Confidence (January); Richmond Fed manufacturing index (January) Earnings: Boeing (BA), General Motors (GM), JetBlue (JBLU), Lockheed Martin (LMT), Logitech (LOGI), Royal Caribbean Cruises (RCL), SAP (SAP), Starbucks (SBUX), Sysco (SYY) Here are some of the biggest stories you may have missed overnight and early this morning: Yahoo Finance Chartbook: 44 charts that tell the story of markets and the economy to start 2025 Boeing reports $11.8B loss, largest since 2020 Black Swan’s Taleb Warns Nvidia Rout Is ‘Hint of What’s to Come’ Wall Street hopes to get rid of a bad Elon Musk bet Trump says Microsoft is in talks to acquire TikTok GM posts Q4 earnings beat despite EV, China challenges How DeepSeek's founder aims to upend the global AI order Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------

Title: 4 portfolio stock winners from DeepSeek's emergence — and 2 we're less sure about
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/01/28/4-portfolio-stock-winners-from-deepseeks-emergence-and-2-were-less-sure-about.html
Time Published: 2025-01-28T19:23:47Z
Full Content:
Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds From Wall Street to Silicon Valley, investors are still trying to get their arms around the emergence of DeepSeek, the Chinese startup whose more efficient but competitive artificial intelligence model sent shockwaves through the U.S. stock market this week. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Data also provided by
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Microsoft to report Q2 earnings as DeepSeek raises AI spending questions
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/microsoft-to-report-q2-earnings-as-deepseek-raises-ai-spending-questions-165353921.html
Time Published: 2025-01-28T16:53:53Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. Microsoft (MSFT) will report its second quarter earnings after the bell on Wednesday as Wall Street continues to digest the fallout surrounding DeepSeek’s impact on the AI industry and Silicon Valley’s tech titans. Microsoft and its Big Tech cohort are investing tens of billions of dollars in the data centers and infrastructure needed to train and deploy AI software across their various services. But China’s DeepSeek upended the general thinking that developing AI models requires the use of the most powerful, and expensive, chips with the release of its R1 model on Jan. 20. The model, the company claims, was trained on systems that were less powerful and less expensive than those produced by American rivals like Microsoft-backed OpenAI, Google (GOOG, GOOGL), and Meta (META). The company’s app shot to the top of the App Store over the weekend, driving a huge amount of interest in the relatively small firm and clobbering American AI stocks, including AI bellwether Nvidia. Now Microsoft will have to prove not only that its own AI work is paying off in terms of increased revenue but also that its hefty infrastructure investments are truly necessary. For the quarter, Microsoft is expected to report earnings per share (EPS) of $3.13 on revenue of $68.8 billion, according to Bloomberg consensus data. The company reported EPS of $2.93 on revenue of $62 billion in the same quarter last year. Importantly, Microsoft’s Commercial Cloud segment revenue, which includes cloud services sales, is expected to come in at $41.1 billion. That would be an increase from the $31.9 billion the company reported in Q2 last year. Its intelligent cloud business, which includes its Azure platform, is set to come in at $25.8 billion, up from $21.5 billion. In a note to investors, Jefferies analyst Brent Thill said he believes Azure growth will begin to reaccelerate in the second half of 2025. “Our checks continue to indicate improving consumption/core cloud trends,” he wrote. “Also, [Microsoft] just announced that ‘OpenAI recently made a new, large Azure commitment that will continue to support all OpenAI products as well as training.’ ” While Microsoft is one of the main beneficiaries of the AI boom, its stock price has lagged behind the competition. Shares of Microsoft were up just 5% over the last 12 months as of Monday, while Amazon (AMZN) and Google shares were up 44% and 26%, respectively. Evercore ISI analyst Kirk Materne, however, says the stock could be set up for a “mini revenge trade” as AI sales increase, its Copilot adoption rate improves, and capital expenditure moderates, creating more free cash flow. Microsoft is also seeking to jump-start PC sales via its Copilot+ PC lineup. The idea is that AI PCs will be able to run AI applications natively rather than via the cloud. But so far, there aren’t very many intriguing scenarios in which those applications make upgrading worthwhile. Hardware updates like improved performance and power are still the main reason consumers want new PCs. Email Daniel Howley at dhowley@yahoofinance.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DanielHowley. For the latest earnings reports and analysis, earnings whispers and expectations, and company earnings news, click here Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Microsoft stock moves lower after Q2 cloud revenue fell short of expectations
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/microsoft-stock-moves-lower-after-q2-cloud-revenue-fell-short-of-expectations-165353435.html
Time Published: 2025-01-28T16:53:53Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. Microsoft (MSFT) reported its second quarter earnings after the bell on Wednesday, beating estimates on the top and bottom lines but falling short on estimates for its Intelligent Cloud business. Microsoft stock fell 6% after the market opened Thursday on the news. Microsoft’s Commercial Cloud segment revenue, which includes cloud services sales, saw revenue of $40 billion, a 21% year-over-year increase but shy of Wall Street expectations of $41.1 billion. Microsoft's intelligent cloud business, which includes its Azure platform, saw revenue of $25.5 billion. Wall Street was expecting $25.8 billion. The company said it saw 13 percentage points of growth in Azure from AI services. Cloud gross margin, however, decreased to 70% on the company's artificial intelligence build-out. “We are innovating across our tech stack and helping customers unlock the full ROI of AI to capture the massive opportunity ahead," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in a statement. “Already, our AI business has surpassed an annual revenue run rate of $13 billion, up 175% year-over-year.” During the company's earnings call, Microsoft said its Intelligent Cloud revenue for the current quarter would land between $25.9 billion and $26.2 billion, sending shares lower. The earnings announcement comes as Wall Street continues to digest the fallout surrounding DeepSeek’s impact on the AI industry and Silicon Valley’s tech titans. Microsoft and its Big Tech cohort are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI data centers, with Microsoft saying it plans to spend $80 billion in fiscal 2025 alone. But China's DeepSeek sent a jolt through the tech sector, saying it trained its AI model on systems that use less power than leading AI chips and at a fraction of the price of those produced by American rivals like Microsoft-backed OpenAI, Google (GOOG, GOOGL), and Meta (META). That has investors questioning whether Silicon Valley is making the right investments. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, however, attempted to downplay any fears saying that the company’s fleet of data centers is “fungible” and that its investments help the company scale long-term business. “The big beneficiaries of any software cycle like that [are] the customers,” he said. For the quarter, Microsoft reported earnings per share (EPS) of $3.23 on revenue of $69.6 billion. Analysts were anticipating EPS of $3.13 on revenue of $68.8 billion, according to Bloomberg consensus data. The company reported EPS of $2.93 on revenue of $62 billion in the same quarter last year. While Microsoft is one of the main beneficiaries of the AI boom, its stock price has lagged behind the competition. Shares of Microsoft were up just 5% over the last 12 months as of Monday, while Amazon (AMZN) and Google shares were up 44% and 26%, respectively. Microsoft is also seeking to jump-start PC sales via its Copilot+ PC lineup. The idea is that AI PCs will be able to run AI applications natively rather than via the cloud. But so far, there aren’t very many intriguing scenarios in which those applications make upgrading worthwhile. Hardware updates like improved performance and power are still the main reason consumers want new PCs. Email Daniel Howley at dhowley@yahoofinance.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DanielHowley. For the latest earnings reports and analysis, earnings whispers and expectations, and company earnings news, click here Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Buy These High Yield CEF Dividends To Hedge Against Market Volatility
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelfoster/2025/01/28/buy-these-high-yield-cef-dividends-to-hedge-against-market-volatility/
Time Published: 2025-01-28T15:00:00Z
Full Content:
investment analysis inflation economic chart With the new administration now in full swing, market events are coming our way at a furious pace, especially for our high yield CEFs. One thing that’s clear about the next few years? Volatility is likely to tick up, especially with stock valuations stretched. Now more than ever, we need to be diversified, so we’re set up to offset any shocks to any one sector while we collect our high closed-end fund dividends. So that’s what we’re going to do today. And CEFs are the best tool to do it. Through just three funds (see tickers below), we’ll give ourselves access to some of the top blue-chip stocks, real estate investment trusts and high-yield bonds out there. Better still (for safety, as well as income), we’ll get a big slice of our return as dividends, as these three funds pay an 8.8% average yield between them. That’s about seven times what the average S&P 500 stock pays. Plus, these yields are sustainable. To say that this “dividend difference” is a big deal is an understatement. Consider a million-dollar portfolio put into the S&P 500 versus these three funds. That’d get you about $1,008 per month with the index, which no one can live on anymore. But that same amount in this three-fund portfolio gets you $7,333 per month — more than the average monthly paycheck in America. Let’s see how these funds’ high-quality assets help sustain those payouts. Their bargain valuations help out a bit on the dividend front, too. A great place to start is with the Nuveen S&P 500 Dynamic Overwrite Fund (SPXX). I say that because this CEF should appeal to anyone who currently holds an S&P 500 index fund, since its mandate is to buy all of the stocks in that index. That means you’ll get names like Microsoft (MSFT), Apple (AAPL), Visa (V), Bank of America (BAC) and other well-known reliable performers that form the backbone of the economy. They’ve helped SPXX deliver strong long-term gains. At the same time, SPXX yields 7.5%, while S&P 500 index funds yield just around 1.2%. That higher yield comes from two major sources. The first is SPXX’s covered-call-option strategy, in which it sells contracts to investors who pay for the privilege of buying the fund’s stocks at a future date at a predetermined amount. SPXX then hands the cash it receives for selling these option contracts to investors as dividends. Second, SPXX will occasionally sell certain holdings and hand the profits to investors, again in the form of dividends. That means you don’t have to worry about buying or selling your shares to rebalance your position. Just let the income flow your way as the managers do all the work. There’s a third reason why that yield is so big, and that’s one of the really cool things about SPXX and CEFs like it. SPXX trades at a 5.8% discount to net asset value (NAV, or the value of its underlying portfolio) as I write this, so we’re getting a bargain that ETF buyers simply don’t have access to. This also means that management can pay out that 7.5% dividend, based on the market price of SPXX, while earning just 7.1% from its NAV, or portfolio value. Remember that the S&P 500 has returned 10% per year on average, so that 7.1% profit per year should be easy for SPXX to achieve. The Cohen & Steers Quality Income Realty Fund (RQI) is a real estate focused CEF that I talk about a lot, for a simple reason: Its management has a proven track record of picking the best REITs. Cohen & Steers has 39 years of experience managing real estate assets for clients and manages over $100 billion in assets. RQI’s yield is also 7.5%, which is pretty easy for the fund to deliver, since management’s annualized returns since RQI’s 2002 inception has been 9.1%. RQI trades around the par value of its portfolio now, but there’s a good reason why. Returns from the fund’s portfolio nicely cover its dividend. It also holds REITs from various industries and regions, so we can look at it as a kind of “one-stop shop” for REIT investing. (RQI also holds a small lot of high-yielding preferred shares.) If that weren’t enough, RQI invests in over 200 real estate assets, most of which are stocks in REITs that themselves manage hundreds (or in some cases thousands) of individual properties. Top holdings include cell-tower REIT American Tower (AMT), warehouse giant Prologis (PLD) and data-center landlord Equinix (EQIX). That’s unparalleled diversification, with a leaning toward some of the most in-demand real estate in the US. That gives us extra reassurance as we collect RQI’s 7.5% payout. Now let’s boost the income stream on this “mini-portfolio” with the PIMCO Access Income Fund (PAXS), whose 11.4% income stream is enormous, but also sustainable. And there’s a simple reason why. High Yield Bond Yields Above we see the average yield for high-yield corporate bonds, which has hovered around 7% since early 2022. Note that Fed rate cuts have pushed that average lower over the last year and a half. This matters for PAXS, a buy recommendation of my CEF Insider service, because the fund invests in bonds similar to those in this index, or “bond-like” assets that are fairly comparable. It has also been collecting that income, which it has been handing over to investors as cash dividends. Since the average effective maturity for the bonds in PAXS’s portfolio is now 6.3 years, that means it’s effectively secured bonds at these high yields to fund payments to investors for many years to come. But you might be thinking, that’s 7%, which is far below the 11.4% PAXS pays out. While that’s true, remember that the Federal Reserve is expected to cut rates over those six years, which will boost the value of PAXS’ bonds (since they pay out more than newly issued bonds would). As that happens, PAXS can sell those bonds at a profit and hand that over to investors as dividends. Now this fund does trade at a slight premium (3.4%) to NAV, but that’s actually a bargain for a fund from PIMCO, which is a revered name among CEF investors. PIMCO funds often trade at premiums—and those premiums regularly stretch into double digits. These three funds together get us an 8.8%-yielding portfolio with a nice mix of stocks, bonds and REITs. And since you can buy all three of these CEFs through any stock brokerage (CEFs are bought and sold like stocks over exchanges like the NYSE), this is an easy way to diversify across hundreds of assets all at once. Michael Foster is the Lead Research Analyst for Contrarian Outlook. For more great income ideas, click here for our latest report “Indestructible Income: 5 Bargain Funds with Steady 8.6% Dividends.” Disclosure: none One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service. We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines. Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Nuix share price crashes 40% on earnings update and global tech sell-down
URL: https://www.fool.com.au/2025/01/28/nuix-share-price-crashes-40-on-earnings-update-and-global-tech-sell-down/
Time Published: 2025-01-28T01:23:21Z
Description: A new Chinese AI chatbot has caused a global sell-off in tech stocks.
The post Nuix share price crashes 40% on earnings update and global tech sell-down appeared first on The Motley Fool Australia.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: What Is DeepSeek? What to Know About the Chinese AI Startup That Spurred a Stock Selloff
URL: https://www.investopedia.com/what-is-deepseek-chinese-ai-startup-that-spurred-a-stock-selloff-ai-chatgpt-8780896
Time Published: 2025-01-27T17:56:34Z
Full Content:
Shares of AI chipmaker Nvidia (NVDA) and a slew of other stocks related to AI sold off Monday as an app from Chinese AI startup DeepSeek boomed in popularity. DeepSeek's AI assistant recently topped the list of free iPhone apps on Apple's (AAPL) app store. (It wasn't in the top 10 on Alphabet's (GOOGL) Google Play store, though it is listed there.) In Apple's store, the app ranked higher than ChatGPT; not so on Google. Here’s what you need to know about DeepSeek—and why it’s having a big impact on markets. And if you're wondering if it wasn't that long ago that another Chinese app was topping the download charts, you're not wrong. DeepSeek, a Chinese startup founded by hedge fund manager Liang Wenfeng, was founded in 2023 in Hangzhou, China, the tech hub home to Alibaba (BABA) and many of China’s other high-flying tech giants. The company says its latest R1 AI model released last week offers performance that is on par with that of OpenAI’s ChatGPT. Its V3 base model launched in December was also reportedly developed in just two months for under $6 million, at a time when the U.S. is limiting China's access to its most sophisticated chips and American AI leaders like OpenAI, Anthropic, and Meta Platforms (META) are spending billions of dollars on development. The rapid ascension of DeepSeek has investors worried it could threaten assumptions about how much competitive AI models cost to develop, as well as the kind of infrastructure needed to support them, with wide-reaching implications for the AI marketplace and Big Tech shares. Nvidia in a statement called DeepSeek "an excellent AI advancement," calling it a "perfect example" of a concept known as test time scaling. The tech-heavy Nasdaq fell more than 3% Monday as investors dragged a host of stocks with ties to AI, from chip to energy firms, downwards. Shares of American AI chipmakers including Nvidia, Broadcom (AVGO) and AMD (AMD) sold off, along with those of international partners like TSMC (TSM). The PHLX Semiconductor Index (SOX) dropped more than 9%. Networking solutions and hardware partner stocks dropped along with them, including Dell (Dell), Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) and Arista Networks (ANET). Some energy stocks were hit too. Shares of nuclear and other energy companies that saw their stocks boom in the last year in anticipation of an AI-driven boom in energy demand, such as Vistra (VST), Constellation Energy (CEG), Oklo (OKLO), and NuScale (SMR), also lost ground Monday. Meanwhile, some non-tech sectors like consumer staples rose Monday, marking a reconsideration of the market's momentum in recent months. Several analysts raised doubts about the longevity of the market’s reaction Monday, suggesting that the day's pullback could offer investors a chance to pick up AI names set for a rebound. Bernstein’s Stacy Rasgon called the reaction “overblown” and maintained an “outperform” rating for Nvidia’s stock price. Citi analysts, who said they expect AI companies to continue buying its advanced chips, maintained a "buy" rating on Nvidia. Wedbush analysts, who voiced skepticism that any major U.S. companies would use a Chinese startup like DeepSeek to build their AI infrastructure, said “launching a competitive LLM model for consumer use cases is one thing… launching broader AI infrastructure is a whole other ballgame and nothing with DeepSeek makes us believe anything different.” Wedbush called Monday a “golden buying opportunity” to own shares in ChatGPT backer Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet, Palantir (PLTR), and other heavyweights of the American AI ecosystem that had come under pressure. UPDATE—Jan. 27, 2025: This article has been updated since it was first published to include additional information and reflect more recent share price values.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Why Nvidia Stock Is Plummeting Today
URL: https://www.investopedia.com/why-nvidia-stock-is-plummeting-today-deepseek-ai-wall-street-8780814
Time Published: 2025-01-27T15:41:21Z
Full Content:
Shares of Nvidia (NVDA) tumbled Monday after the release of a sophisticated artificial intelligence model from a Chinese startup prompted a reckoning on Wall Street regarding AI spending. Chinese company DeepSeek last week released R1, an AI model that appears to rival the capabilities of models from U.S. tech giants like OpenAI and Google despite running on fewer, less powerful chips. U.S. investors began to take notice of the model late last week, and over the weekend started to worry about what it means for richly valued U.S. tech stocks. Nvidia’s earnings and stock price have soared in the past two years as tech giants like Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet (GOOG)(GOOGL), and Amazon (AMZN) have spent massively on the company's AI systems. DeepSeek has led investors to question whether all that spending was necessary and, if not, why it would continue. Nvidia stock was hammered by Monday’s sell-off. Shares tumbled nearly 17%, its largest one-day drop since the Covid-19 crash in March 2020. Monday’s sell-off wiped about $589 billion from Nvidia’s market cap, the largest loss in history. Wall Street analysts were mostly skeptical about DeepSeek and the sell-off it prompted, though their commentary often reflected uncertainty about the effects DeepSeek could have on the market. Citi analysts expressed doubt that DeepSeek had achieved its results without the most advanced chips. They maintained their "buy" rating on Nvidia stock and said they don't expect major U.S. AI companies to move away from using its advanced GPUs. Jefferies analysts, however, noted DeepSeek's success could press Silicon Valley management to "refocus on efficiency and ROI, meaning lower demand for computing power as of 2026." Concern about future AI models requiring less computing power weighed on other high-flying AI stocks, including nuclear power providers Vistra (VST) and Constellation Energy Corp. (CEG), which slumped 28% and 21%, respectively. Nvidia competitor Broadcom (AVGO) also dropped about 17%.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: The Nasdaq sinks more than 800 points as a China AI threat sparks a huge tech stock sell-off
URL: https://qz.com/nasdaq-nvidia-tech-stocks-deepseek-ai-djia-sp500-1851748172
Time Published: 2025-01-27T13:15:00Z
Full Content:
The tech-heavy Nasdaq slipped 3% Monday afternoon as a perceived threat from Chinese artificial intelligence startup DeepSeek prompted a global sell-off of tech stocks. Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, an index of 30 of the largest U.S. companies including Nvidia (NVDA), went up 109 points or 0.2% as of Monday afternoon. Moreover, the S&P 500 tumbled by 1.8%. The Nasdaq, which has been significantly boosted by AI hype, is especially susceptible to any investor concerns, especially when it comes to AI. And the rise of any competitor to U.S. dominance in the space, especially one that uses less energy and has less of a need for high-end chips, can cause fears to spike. DeepSeek in December launched a free, open source large language model (LLM), which it claimed it had developed in just two months for less than $6 million. Last week, the company said it launched a model that rivals OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Meta’s (META) Llama 3.1 — and which rose to the top of Apple’s (AAPL) App Store over the weekend. Most notably, DeepSeek built the model using lower capability chips from Nvidia, which could put pressure on the semiconductor darling if other firms move away from its premium offerings. Read more: Nvidia stock plunges 14% as a big advance by China’s DeepSeek rattles AI investors Analysts at Wedbush said in a research note Monday that “tech stocks are under massive pressure led by Nvidia as the Street will view DeepSeek as a major perceived threat to U.S. tech dominance and owning this AI Revolution.” The sell-off was led by Nvidia, whose stock fell as much as 16% Monday afternoon. Other major chip stocks also sank, including ASML (ASML), Broadcom (AVGO), Super Micro Computer (SMCI), Micron (MU), and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSM). “U.S. tech companies are trading at premium valuations, with major AI players like Nvidia, Microsoft (MSFT), and Alphabet (GOOGL) commanding forward [price-to-earnings] multiples far above historical averages,” said Charu Chanana, chief investment strategist at investment platform Saxo, in a statement. “With these stocks priced for perfection, even minor disruptions, such as DeepSeek proving advanced AI can be built without top-tier chips, could weigh heavily on share prices.” Analysts at Wedbush said DeepSeek is not yet a real threat to U.S. hyperscalers, and could prompt further capital expenditure from major firms like Amazon (AMZN), Alphabet, and Microsoft. This week, significant earnings reports are due from big tech companies, such as Apple (AAPL), Tesla (TSLA), Meta (META), and Microsoft (MSFT). Our free, fast, and fun briefing on the global economy, delivered every weekday morning.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Nvidia stock plunges 14% as a big advance by China's DeepSeek rattles AI investors
URL: https://qz.com/nvidia-stock-deepseek-china-ai-model-chatgpt-llama-1851748167
Time Published: 2025-01-27T12:55:00Z
Full Content:
Nvidia (NVDA) stock plunged 16% Monday afternoon after Chinese artificial intelligence startup DeepSeek’s latest model raised questions about American competitiveness in the AI space. DeepSeek in December launched a free, open source large language model (LLM), which it claimed it had developed in just two months for less than $6 million. And last week, the company said it launched a model that rivals OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Meta’s (META) Llama 3.1 — and which rose to the top of Apple’s (AAPL) App Store over the weekend. Most notably, DeepSeek built the model using lower capability chips from Nvidia, which could put pressure on the semiconductor darling if other firms move away from its premium offerings. Analysts at Wedbush said in a research note Monday that “tech stocks are under massive pressure led by Nvidia as the Street will view DeepSeek as a major perceived threat to U.S. tech dominance and owning this AI Revolution.” Read more: The Nasdaq sinks more than 800 points as a China AI threat sparks a huge tech stock sell-off Other major chip stocks also sank, including ASML (ASML), Broadcom (AVGO), Super Micro Computer (SMCI), Micron (MU), and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSM). “U.S. tech companies are trading at premium valuations, with major AI players like Nvidia, Microsoft (MSFT), and Alphabet (GOOGL) commanding forward [price-to-earnings] multiples far above historical averages,” said Charu Chanana, chief investment strategist at investment platform Saxo, in a statement. “With these stocks priced for perfection, even minor disruptions, such as DeepSeek proving advanced AI can be built without top-tier chips, could weigh heavily on share prices.” With the end goal of AI being artificial general intelligence (AGI) — and with U.S. companies well on their way to achieve it within the coming years — Wedbush analysts believe Monday’s investor jitters may be overblown. “While the model is impressive and it will have a ripple impact,” they said, “the reality is that Mag 7 and US tech is focused on the AGI endgame with all the infrastructure and ecosystem that China and especially DeepSeek cannot come close to in our view.” Our free, fast, and fun briefing on the global economy, delivered every weekday morning.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Why China Startup DeepSeek Could Spell Trouble For Nvidia, AI Stocks
URL: https://www.investors.com/news/technology/deepseek-ai-stocks-nvidia-artificial-intelligence-capital-spending/
Time Published: 2025-01-27T01:54:10Z
Description: Wall Street mulled demand for Nvidia chips and huge capital spending.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Here's what we'd like to see from our 8 stocks reporting earnings this week
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/01/26/what-wed-like-to-see-from-our-8-stocks-reporting-earnings-this-week.html
Time Published: 2025-01-26T16:21:44Z
Full Content:
Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds The first trading week of President Donald Trump's second term was positive for all three major averages, as investors cheered the incoming administration's pro-business policies and corporate earnings largely came in stronger than expected. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Data also provided by
--------------------------------------------------