List of news related to Novo Nordisk NVO:

Title: Stock Market Rises On Tame Inflation, Bank Earnings: Weekly Review
URL: https://www.investors.com/news/stock-market-rises-tame-inflation-bank-earnings/
Time Published: 2025-01-17T15:21:10Z
Description: Many stocks flashed buy signals as the major indexes rose to or above key levels.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Stock market today: Dow leads weekly stock market rally ahead of Trump inauguration
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-dow-leads-weekly-stock-market-rally-ahead-of-trump-inauguration-143105694.html
Time Published: 2025-01-17T14:31:05Z
Full Content:
We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. US stocks jumped on Friday amid a tech stock revival as investors assessed a week of key data and earnings reports alongside potential policy shifts under a Trump administration. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 0.8% while the S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose 1%, coming off a losing day for the major gauges. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) put on 1.5% as Nvidia (NVDA) and Tesla (TSLA) shares nudged back into the green. Markets have turned upbeat as investors take stock of recent days' big bank earnings and inflation readings, which have resuscitated bets on interest-rate cuts. Stocks posted big weekly wins after a major rally on Wednesday, while the 10-year Treasury yield (^TNX) pulled back to trade around 4.6% on Friday. The Dow finished up 3.7 for the week. The S&P recorded a 2.9% gain, while the Nasdaq closed 2.4% ahead of last week. Housing starts climbed faster than forecast in December, and US industrial production outstripped estimates. The data out Friday added to a picture of strength in the US economy, buoying rate optimism. Meanwhile, techs were staging a comeback, with Apple (AAPL) stock up 0.7% in afternoon trading after booking its worst loss since August. Chipmakers such as Micron (MU) joined Nvidia in making gains, while Coinbase (COIN) was among crypto-linked names getting a boost as bitcoin (BTC-USD) continued its advance above $100,000. Minds are also on potential policy upheaval on the last day of trading before Donald Trump begins his second term as president. Fears are that his plans for tariffs, taxes, and debt — as aired by Treasury pick Scott Bessent on Thursday — could inflame inflation. Inauguration day is Monday, when markets will be closed to mark the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. China's economy, an adversary for Trump, grew more than expected last year, topping Beijing's 5% target after a stimulus blitz. But Asia stocks lost ground on Friday as investors weigh the potential hit from promised hefty tariffs. The major gauges rallied on Friday and for the week, led by a tech stock resurgence and a shifting mood on Wall Street ahead of Trump's inauguration on Monday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 0.8% while the S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose 1%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) put on 1.5% as Nvidia (NVDA) and Tesla (TSLA) shares were among the biggest players to shift back into the green. The Dow finished up 3.7% for the week. The S&P recorded a 2.9% gain, while the Nasdaq closed 2.4% ahead of last week. Markets have turned upbeat as investors have celebrated earnings from big banks and absord fresh inflation readings that signal the Fed continues to make progress in curbing pricing pressures, resuscitated bets on interest-rate cuts in the months ahed After the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, Wall Street will kickstart a whole new era as Trump ascends to the White House for the second time. Market sentiment has improved from a sour mood in recent weeks, instead clinging to a rosier interest rate outlook, muscular corporate earnings, and the expected policy changes that President-elect Trump hopes will lead to a cycle of growth for the US economy. A raft of corporate results will fill up the calendar next week, with big names like Netflix (NFLX), American Express (AXP), and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) set to report. Major airlines are also on deck. On the data front, a gauge of future US economic activity is set to be released on Wednesday, with the end of the week brining a fresh reading on consumer sentiment. Yahoo Finance's Brent Sanchez has a graphical breakdown of what to watch next week: The Tesla (TSLA) trade continues to reflect the ambitions and the passionate following of its singular CEO, Elon Musk. Tesla shares jumped roughly 6% Friday amid speculation that Musk could potentially buy TikTok. The short-form video app that has amassed a huge following in the US needs to find an American buyer, or it will effectively face a nationwide ban starting next week. “We believe ByteDance and ultimately Beijing is looking at the possibility that Musk/X could buy the US TikTok operations,” wrote Wedbush analyst Dan Ives in a note to investors. Tesla is also enjoying a broader rally in part thanks to Musk's alliance with President-elect Trump, who could potentially accelerate the EV company's plans to launch a fleet of robotaxis. Musk also co-leads a quasi-governmental position that aims to cut federal spending, which could also favor Musk's aspirations. Tesla's share price has surged around 75% since Election Day. The Securities and Exchange Commission announced Friday that the investment adviser Vanguard will pay more than $100 million to settle charges for misleading statements related to its target-date retirement funds. The charges stem from a decision in late 2020 by Vanguard to lower the minimum initial investment for its institutional target retirement funds. After a substantial number of retirement plan investors switched from their investor plans to to the institutional plans, underlying assets had to be sold to meet the demand for theese redemptions. Retail investors who did not switch into the institutional target funds were hit with "historically larger capital gains distributions and tax liabilities and were deprived of the potential compounding growth of their investments," according to the SEC. Vanguard told Yahoo Finance in a statement that it is pleased to have reached this settlement. The settlement amount will be distributed to harmed investors, the SEC said. Bitcoin bulls are back in control Friday as the price of the dominant cryptocurrency shot above $100,000 and investors anticipated further action from President-elect Donald Trump to support the industry. Trump is expected to release an executive order prioritizing crypto policy during his early days in office, according to reports, as well as appoint business-friendly officials to oversee digital currency's continued rollout into the broader economy. In addition to cryptocurrencies rising in value, several corporate players tied to the ecosystem are rallying off the news. Coinbase (COIN), the nation's largest crypto trading platform, rose 5% Friday. MicroStrategy (MSTR), which continues to invest heavily in bitcoin, gained 7%. Trump has also expressed interest in creating a US crypto reserve, appointing a crypto czar, and implementing other regulations to drive adoption. The pro-growth approach contrasts with what was widely seen as an antagonistic relationship between the Biden administration and the crypto industry. The final trading day of the Biden era is heading for muscular gains Friday as optimism over President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration, and the policy changes that will follow, conicide with impressive corporate earnings and a rosier interest rate outlook. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 1.1% while the S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose 1.2%, coming off a losing day for the major gauges. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) put on over 1.7% as Nvidia (NVDA) and Tesla (TSLA) shares nudged back into the green. Stocks are on track for big weekly wins after a major rally on Wednesday. And the 10-year Treasury yield (^TNX) pulled back to trade around 4.6% on Friday. Here are some of the stocks leading Yahoo Finance’s trending tickers page during morning trading on Friday. META (META): Shares of the social media platform rose more than half a percent Friday morning following a decision from the US Supreme Court upholding the law that could see its rival, short-form video app TikTok, banned in the US. The TikTok ban would become effective this Sunday, Jan. 19, unless Chinese-owned parent company ByteDance divests from the platform. Novo Nordisk (NVO): The pharmaceutical company came under pressure after some of its medications were included in a list of Medicare price negotiations in 2027. Novo Nordisk's (NVO) GLP-1 weight-loss drugs, Ozempic and Wegovy, were among the names. Shares fell more than 4%. Intel (INTC): Shares of the embattled technology giant surged 8% Friday afternoon as speculation circulated online that the company has become an acquisition target, based on a report from SemiAccurate Friday. Intel stock has lost more than half its value over the past year. Coinbase (COIN): The nation's largest crypto platform is being buoyed once again by surging bitcoin prices. The price of bitcoin (BTC-USD) topped $100,000 again Friday following reports that President-elect Donald Trump is planning to release an executive order elevating crypto as a policy priority. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released its second round of drug negotiation targets, a list of 15 drugs under Medicare Part D, including Novo Nordisk's (NVO) blockbuster GLP-1s, reports Yahoo Finance's Anjalee Khemlani. Novo was trading down 4% on the news Friday. Diabetes drug Ozempic and weight-loss drug Wegovy top the list, along with a number of others like Merck's (MRK) diabetes drug Janumet. Read more about the next round of drug price negotiations here. It is unclear if the incoming Trump administration will honor this list and the process or change it after taking office Jan. 20. Novo Nordisk currently has 55% of the GLP-1 market and has raked in $50 billion from the two drugs last year in the first three quarters alone. The US Supreme Court has upheld a law that bans TikTok in the US from Sunday unless it is sold to an owner not controlled by a foreign adversary, report Yahoo Finance's Alexis Keenan and Daniel Howley. The ruling on Friday creates new uncertainty for the Chinese app used by 170 million Americans, but could be a long-term boon for social-media rivals for ad dollars like Meta (META). The court sided with the US government’s argument that ties between TikTok’s parent ByteDance and Beijing presented a national security threat that empowered Congress to demand it be sold. TikTok had argued it was entitled to First Amendment protections and that its proprietary algorithm was in fact an editorial expression that qualified as speech. The court's decision likely leaves the fate of TikTok in the hands of Donald Trump, who promised to "save TikTok" and had asked the court to suspend the divestment deadline. The president-elect takes office on Jan. 20, a day after the ban goes into effect. Read more here. A tech stock revival drove a jump on Wall Street Friday as investors took in a week of favorable inflation readings and impressive corporate earnings, shifting market sentiment back toward optimism as the Federal Reserve considers its rate-setting policy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 0.7%, while the S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose 1%, coming off a losing day for the major gauges. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) put on over 1.6% as Nvidia (NVDA) and Tesla (TSLA) shares nudged back into the green. Markets have turned upbeat as investors take stock of recent days' big bank earnings and inflation readings, which have resuscitated bets on interest-rate cuts. Stocks are on track for big weekly wins after a major rally on Wednesday, while the 10-year Treasury yield (^TNX) pulled back to 4.6% on Friday. Housing starts rose in December, buoyed by a pickup in multifamily construction. Data from the Census Bureau showed that housing jumped 15.8% in December to an annual rate of 1.49 million, which was higher than economists' expectations for an annual rate of 1.32 million. Single-family starts had a modest advance. Construction rose 3.3% to an annualized rate of 1.05 million, the strongest pace since February 2024. Meanwhile, construction for multifamily dwellings grew by nearly 62%. “Housing starts soared at the end of the year, but this does not mean the country is out of the woods when it comes to the problems in the residential housing sector,” Christopher Rupkey, chief economist at FWDBONDS, wrote after the release. “There still is not enough housing in the country, and the construction of residential homes remains historically depressed,” the economist added. To this point, new construction in 2024 was the slowest it has been since 2019, per Bloomberg. Despite the rise in construction, builders are dealing with elevated mortgage rates. Freddie Mac said mortgage rates increased to 7.04% this week, hitting the highest since May 2024. Rates on a home loan tend to follow US Treasury yields, which had been climbing higher following strong employment data. Economic data: Industrial production (December); Housing starts (December); Building permits (December) Earnings: Citizens Financial Group (CFG), State Street (STT), Truist (TFC), Webster Bank (WBS) Here are some of the biggest stories you may have missed overnight and early this morning: Trump seeks to 'save' TikTok, but time is running out Nvidia's Huang will miss Trump inauguration, unlike other tech CEOs SpaceX's starship explodes in surprise test flight setback Tech CEOs' courtship of Trump is all about defense Nomura joins T. Rowe in raising prospect of 6% Treasury yields Student debt ends Biden era bigger than when he took office China Heads for Trump Showdown With Yuan, Stocks Under Threat Spirit Airlines cuts 200 jobs amid bankruptcy scramble Sign in to access your portfolio
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Ozempic could get cheaper as Medicare eyes drug price negotiations — and Novo Nordisk stock slips
URL: https://qz.com/wegovy-ozempic-drug-price-talks-novo-nordisk-medicare-1851741842
Time Published: 2025-01-17T14:13:00Z
Full Content:
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) said Friday that it had selected another 15 drugs for its second round of price negotiations, including the popular weight loss drugs Ozempic and Wegovy. Negotiations between the federal government and drugmakers are slated to occur in 2025, with any new prices set to take effect in 2027. Pharmaceutical companies have until Feb. 25 to decide if they will participate in negotiations. Along with Wegovy and Ozempic, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has tapped Xtandi, Ibrance, Calquence, and Pomalyst, which are used to treat various types of cancer, for price negotiations. Otezla, a psoriasis medicine; Vraylar, an antipsychotic.; and Trelegy Ellipta, an inhaler used to treat emphysema and asthma, were also picked. According to the CMS, the drugs selected were used by 5.3 million people with coverage under Medicare Part D between November 2023 and October 2024 to treat conditions such as cancer and type 2 diabetes. They also accounted for about $41 billion in total gross covered under Medicare Part D, or about 14% of all costs, during that time period. “Last year, we proved that negotiating for lower drug prices works,” Xavier Becerra, the outgoing head of HHS, said in a statement. “Now we plan to build on that record by negotiating for lower prices for 15 additional important drugs for seniors.” The Inflation Reduction Act, which was passed by Congress in 2022, allowed the CMS to negotiate the price for brand name drugs that make up most of Medicare’s prescription drug spending. HHS in August announced lowered prices of the first 10 prescription drugs that underwent Medicare negotiations. The selected drugs accounted for $56.2 billion in total Medicare spending in 2023, according to HHS. The negotiations resulted in price discounts ranging from 38% to 79%. Read More: Ozempic and prescription weight loss drugs: How they work, what they cost, side effects, and everything to know Novo Nordisk (NVO-5.10%), the company behind both Ozempic and Wegovy, had expected Ozempic to be included in the second round of price negotiations. Its drugs have become incredibly popular as Americans turn to GLP-1 medications to help them lose weight. Wegovy has also been approved for reducing heart risks like heart attacks and strokes, while studies have found these dugs can help with several other conditions. Novo Nordisk saw its stock fall by more than 4% in pre-market trading Friday. Shares are also being affected by headline results from a new study that found patients who take a higher dose of Wegovy lost more weight than those on a lower dose without experiencing an increase in side effects. The study found that people who took a 7.2-milligram dose lost an average of 20.7% of their weight over 72 weeks. Patients who took a 2.4-milligram dose of the semaglutide lost 17.5% of their weight, while people given a placebo lost just 2.4% of their weight over that time. Over 33% of participants who took the higher dose also recorded a weight loss of 25% or more, compared to 16.7% of participants with the lower dose. “We are very pleased to demonstrate 20.7% weight loss and to see that 33% of patients achieved more than 25% weight loss with semaglutide 7.2 mg, with a safety and tolerability profile comparable to semaglutide 2.4 mg,” Novo Nordisk’s head of development, Martin Holst Lange, said in a statement. — Bruce Gil contributed to this article. Our free, fast, and fun briefing on the global economy, delivered every weekday morning.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Novo Nordisk A/S: Semaglutide 7.2 mg s.c. achieved 20.7% weight loss in the STEP UP obesity trial, and 18.7% regardless of treatment adherence
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/01/17/3011376/0/en/Novo-Nordisk-A-S-Semaglutide-7-2-mg-s-c-achieved-20-7-weight-loss-in-the-STEP-UP-obesity-trial-and-18-7-regardless-of-treatment-adherence.html
Time Published: 2025-01-17T12:11:00Z
Full Content:
January 17, 2025 07:11 ET | Source: Novo Nordisk A/S Novo Nordisk A/S Bagsværd, Denmark, 17 January 2025 – Novo Nordisk today announced headline results from STEP UP, a phase 3b trial in the global STEP programme. STEP UP is a 72-week efficacy and safety trial investigating subcutaneous semaglutide 7.2 mg compared to semaglutide 2.4 mg and placebo, all administered once weekly. The trial included 1,407 randomised adults with obesity. All treatment arms were in conjunction with lifestyle intervention. The trial achieved its primary endpoint by demonstrating a statistically significant and superior weight loss at week 72 with semaglutide 7.2 mg versus placebo. When evaluating the effects of treatment if all people adhered to treatment1 from a mean baseline body weight of 113 kg, people treated with semaglutide 7.2 mg achieved a superior weight loss of 20.7% after 72 weeks compared to a reduction of 17.5% with semaglutide 2.4 mg and 2.4% with placebo. In addition, 33.2% of those who received semaglutide 7.2 mg achieved a weight loss of 25% or more after 72 weeks, compared to 16.7% with semaglutide 2.4 mg and 0.0% with placebo. When applying the treatment policy estimand2, people treated with semaglutide 7.2 mg achieved a superior weight loss of 18.7% compared to a reduction of 15.6% with semaglutide 2.4 mg and 3.9% with placebo. In the trial, semaglutide 7.2 mg appeared to have a safe and well-tolerated profile. The most common adverse events were gastrointestinal, and the vast majority were mild to moderate and diminished over time, consistent with the GLP-1 receptor agonist class. “We are very pleased to demonstrate 20.7% weight loss and to see that 33% of patients achieved more than 25% weight loss with semaglutide 7.2 mg, with a safety and tolerability profile comparable to semaglutide 2.4 mg,” said Martin Holst Lange, executive vice president for Development at Novo Nordisk. “Results from STEP UP further strengthen the clinical profile of semaglutide for the treatment of obesity, in addition to the health benefits already established with Wegovy®, including cardiovascular risk reduction as seen in SELECT”. The results from the second semaglutide 7.2 mg phase 3 trial, STEP UP T2D, in adults with type 2 diabetes and obesity are expected within the next few months. Detailed results from the STEP UP trial are expected to be presented at a scientific conference in 2025. About the STEP UP trialsNovo Nordisk has initiated two trials investigating the efficacy of semaglutide 7.2mg, STEP UP and STEP UP T2D. The 72-week STEP UP trial was a randomised, double-blinded, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, superiority trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of semaglutide 7.2 mg with semaglutide 2.4 mg and placebo as an adjunct to lifestyle intervention. 1,407 adults with BMI ≥30 kg/m2 and without diabetes were included in the trial. The primary objective was to demonstrate superiority of semaglutide 7.2 mg against placebo on weight loss. Key secondary endpoints included number of participants achieving 10%, 15%, 20% and 25% weight loss, respectively. The ongoing 72-week STEP UP T2D trial will investigate semaglutide 7.2 mg in 512 adults with obesity and type 2 diabetes, with the primary objective to demonstrate superiority of semaglutide 7.2 mg against placebo on weight loss. About Wegovy® (semaglutide 2.4 mg)Semaglutide 2.4 mg is marketed under the brand name Wegovy®. In the EU, Wegovy® is indicated as an adjunct to a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity for weight management in adults with a BMI of 30 kg/m2 or greater (obesity) or adults with a BMI of 27 kg/m2 or greater (overweight) in the presence of at least one weight-related comorbid condition. In the EU, Wegovy® is also indicated for paediatric patients aged 12 years and older with an initial BMI at the 95th percentile or greater for age and gender (obesity) and body weight above 60 kg. The clinical section of the label also includes data showing the benefits of Wegovy® in reducing the risk of MACE, improving HFpEF-related symptoms and physical function, as well as reducing pain related to knee osteoarthritis. In the US, Wegovy® is indicated in combination with a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity to reduce the risk of MACE in adults with established cardiovascular disease and either obesity or overweight, as well as to reduce excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long term in adults and paediatric patients aged 12 years and older with obesity and in adults with overweight in the presence of at least one weight-related comorbid condition. About Novo NordiskNovo Nordisk is a leading global healthcare company, founded in 1923 and headquartered in Denmark. Our purpose is to drive change to defeat serious chronic diseases, built upon our heritage in diabetes. We do so by pioneering scientific breakthroughs, expanding access to our medicines, and working to prevent and ultimately cure disease. Novo Nordisk employs about 72,000 people in 80 countries and markets its products in around 170 countries. Novo Nordisk's B shares are listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen (Novo-B). Its ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NVO). For more information, visit novonordisk.com, Facebook, Instagram, X, LinkedIn and YouTube. Contacts for further information Company announcement No 2 / 2025 1 Based on the trial product estimand: treatment effect if all people adhered to treatment2 Based on the treatment policy estimand: treatment effect regardless of treatment adherence Attachment
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Want $1 million in retirement? Look at 3 simple ASX ETFs to buy and hold for decades
URL: https://www.fool.com.au/2025/01/16/want-1-million-in-retirement-look-at-3-simple-asx-etfs-to-buy-and-hold-for-decades/
Time Published: 2025-01-15T23:30:00Z
Description: Retiring wealthy doesn't need a complicated investment strategy.
The post Want $1 million in retirement? Look at 3 simple ASX ETFs to buy and hold for decades appeared first on The Motley Fool Australia.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Eli Lilly: What's Left To Like? A Lot, Says One Analyst.
URL: https://www.investors.com/news/technology/eli-lilly-stock-guidance-cut-2025/
Time Published: 2025-01-15T15:23:22Z
Description: The company cut its fourth-quarter guidance by 5%. But there's still a lot happening for Lilly.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Jim Cramer on Novo Nordisk A/S (NVO): ‘That’s Denmark’s Jugular’
URL: https://consent.yahoo.com/v2/collectConsent?sessionId=1_cc-session_aaa2a053-17a0-4a39-963b-730e9c41a6d4
Time Published: 2025-01-14T20:15:50Z
Description: None
--------------------------------------------------