List of news related to Stocks with massive upside potential:

Title: Jim Cramer Says “We’re Going to Buy Reddit Very Slowly”
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/jim-cramer-says-going-buy-113629120.html
Time Published: 2026-06-10T11:36:29Z
Description: Reddit, Inc. (NYSE:RDDT) was among the stocks Jim Cramer discussed on Mad Money, along with the recent sell-off in the market. When a caller asked if the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Sensex today | Stock Market Highlights: Sensex, Nifty end flat as early gains fade; gold prices slide sharply
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/sensex-nifty50-today-stock-market-highlights-10th-june-2026/article71081121.ece
Time Published: 2026-06-10T10:37:18Z
Full Content:
+ 64.42 -27.15 + 166.00 -3,312.00 -4,157.00 + 64.42 -27.15 -27.15 + 166.00 + 166.00 -3,312.00 A blue-toned stock image showing coin stacks, a bar-style chart, and a rising line to convey financial growth, market trends, and investment analysis in a professional business context. istockphoto for BL Sensex Today, Nifty 50 | Stock Market Live Updates - Find here all the live updates related to Sensex, Nifty, BSE, NSE, share prices and Indian stock markets for 10th June 2026. Indian equity markets ended largely flat on Wednesday after erasing early gains. The BSE Sensex closed 64.42 points, or 0.09%, higher at 73,983.18, while the Nifty 50 declined 27.15 points, or 0.12%, to settle at 23,214.95. Of the 4,369 stocks traded on the BSE, 1,475 advanced, 2,740 declined, and 154 remained unchanged. A total of 115 stocks touched their 52-week highs, while 77 hit 52-week lows. As many as 152 stocks hit the upper circuit, while 195 stocks touched the lower circuit. Gold prices declined sharply by ₹4,300 to ₹1.56 lakh per 10 grams, while silver prices fell by ₹10,000 to ₹2.45 lakh per kg in the national capital. The fall was driven by a rise in crude oil prices and a stronger US dollar, which weighed on demand for precious metals. The Indian rupee ended almost unchanged against the US dollar as markets balanced volatility in crude oil prices, increased dollar demand due to maturing non-deliverable forward contracts, and possible central bank intervention. The rupee closed at 95.2650 per dollar, marginally stronger than the previous session’s close of 95.35. Bharti Airtel has rebranded its Priority Postpaid service, which triggered net neutrality debate, as Fast Lane service, extending the promise of faster connectivity to postpaid users, the company said on Wednesday. Rising crude oil prices and higher US bond yields trigger a sharp sell-off in precious metals The rupee closed at 95.2650 per dollar, up marginally compared to its close of 95.35 in ‌the previous session. Indian government bond yields dropped sharply in the last four days, with the benchmark 10-year yield falling 0.10 per cent, as Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) inflows picked up after the government's recent tax relief measures for debt investments. BCPL Railway Infrastructure bagged a new project of Rs 130.95 million under South East Central Railway in Bilaspur division Sensex, Nifty erase early gains and settle marginally flat. BSE Sensex settled 64.42 points or 0.09% positive at 73,983.18, while Nifty 50 dipped 27.15 points or 0.12% to 23,214.95. Avendus, India’s leading institutional financial services firm, today announced the appointment of Gaurav Arora to lead its Infrastructure & Real Assets Investment Banking business as Managing Director and Head. Gaurav brings institutional pedigree and deal-making depth to a sector undergoing one of its most significant transformation cycles. Most recently Executive Director at UBS, he has also held senior roles at Deutsche Bank and Jefferies, where he spent nearly a decade. Across these institutions, he has built strong teams and deep sector coverage across Energy, Infrastructure, and Industrials, advising some of the most consequential mandates in the space. On his appointment, Gaurav Arora said, “I am excited to be part of the Avendus franchise, which has established itself as a trusted advisor over the last 26 years. I see significant opportunities in the Infrastructure and Real Assets sector, which is witnessing heightened deal activity, driven by increasing institutional capital inflows and the growing financialization of assets, particularly in InvITs and REITs. I look forward to building upon the platform’s strong foundation and establishing the practice as a market leader.” Welcoming him to the firm, Gaurav Deepak, Co-founder and CEO, Avendus said, “Gaurav is exactly the kind of leader we were looking for. His deep sector expertise, client-first approach, and institution-building mindset are closely aligned with the Avendus culture. We are excited to have him lead our highly talented Infrastructure & Real Assets team and build a market-leading franchise.” Veerhealth Care received repeat order worth Rs 3.60 crores from one of lndia’s Leading FMCG company for Skin Care Products Vedanta group firm Hindustan Zinc on Wednesday said it has signed a pact with Sulfozyme Agro India under its Zinc Industrial Park initiative to advance sustainable metal recovery. PhonePe today announced the launch of SmartPages, an AI-powered payment page creator built natively into the PhonePe Payment Gateway (PG) dashboard. A first in India’s payment gateway ecosystem, SmartPages eliminates traditional barriers like technical know-how, high costs, and time constraints, allowing merchants to build contextual, professional and conversion-optimized payment pages instantly. Unlike standard no-code page builders that require manual form filling and copywriting, SmartPages leverages AI to automate the entire process. A merchant simply describes what they are selling in a few sentences, in any vernacular language and the AI acts as both copywriter and designer. It instantly generates persuasive product copy, selects appropriate input fields (like shipping or contact details), and structures the complete mobile-optimized layout. Speaking on the launch, Deep Agrawal, VP and Head of Payments at PhonePe said, “SmartPages directly addresses two of the most common challenges faced by small and independent sellers, the lack of technical resources to build a website, and the difficulty of crafting marketing copy. While a full website build can take weeks and manual no-code solutions take hours, SmartPages compresses this setup to under 10 minutes by automating the heavy lifting. This launch furthers our goal of enabling our partner merchants’ business growth” Gold ETFs faced a ₹725 crore outflow in May, ending a 13-month inflow streak amidst changing investor sentiment. Vikaas M Sachdeva, CEO - BitDelta India “Every asset class moves through phases where price action becomes detached from fundamentals, and the recent correction in Bitcoin reflects one such phase. For those familiar with how institutional-grade assets behave under macro stress, this correction has a familiar shape - rising yields, geopolitical uncertainty, and shifting institutional behaviour have triggered a broad risk-off move, and Bitcoin, now deeply integrated into global capital markets, has moved with it. That is not a sign of weakness. It is a sign of maturation. What is equally significant is how different this correction looks compared to earlier cycles. Past drawdowns were structurally deeper and driven by crypto-specific failures. Today, with regulated investment vehicles holding meaningful institutional assets, the CLARITY Act advancing through the U.S. Senate, and corporate treasuries carrying Bitcoin on their balance sheets, the foundations underneath this market have evolved considerably. When Gold ETFs were first absorbed into institutional portfolios, they too experienced sharp sentiment-driven selloffs the 2013 taper tantrum being the clearest example. Bitcoin ETFs are navigating a similar passage today. For markets like India, the takeaway is consistent with what we have seen across every maturing financial category. Sustainable participation begins when investors approach an asset class with discipline rather than momentum, and when allocation is calibrated to volatility rather than short-term direction. The structural case for VDAs has not changed. What this moment calls for is context, perspective, and a clear-eyed view of the long term.” By Sok Yin Yong, Fixed Income Analyst Asia, Julius Baer The RBI’s decision to hold rates and keep its neutral stance was in line with market expectations. Highlight of the policy meeting was the measures to boost capital inflows and support the INR, which came alongside the government’s move to scrap taxes to attract overseas capital. Both INR and IGBs gained following these coordinated measures with the yield curve shifting lower. We view as positive that the RBI has opted not to use policy rates to defend the INR but instead use other tools to stem INR deprecation. Yet, the lift of the inflation forecast by the RBI means it could tighten monetary policy in the coming months in line with regional peers in response to persistent inflationary pressures. The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monetary policy committee (MPC) kept its policy rate on hold at 5.25% last Friday in a unanimous vote and maintained its neutral stance. RBI Governor Sanjay Malhotra said the central bank will remain data-dependent and closely monitor the developments, including supply-side pressures getting embedded in the general price level and inflation expectations. The rate decision came as India reported resilient GDP growth for the fiscal year ended March 2026 (FY26), accelerating to 7.7% y/y from 7.1% in FY25 despite facing challenges from higher US tariffs and the impact from the Middle East conflict in March. However, with global oil prices staying elevated and Gulf tensions lingering, the RBI has trimmed its FY27 GDP growth forecast to 6.6% y/y (from 6.9% before) and flagged prolonged volatility posing downside risks to growth. The RBI also revised up its inflation forecast to 5.1% y/y (from 4.6% before) and the core CPI inflation estimate to 4.7% y/y (+30bps). Alongside these revisions, the highlight of the policy meeting was a package of measures to help boost capital inflows and support the INR. Some of these measures include the concessional forex-swap facility to encourage external commercial borrowings by public sector entities, the RBI will bear the hedging costs for banks raising new three to five-year deposits from non-resident Indians (NRI), and new issuances of 15, 30, and 40-year Indian government bonds (IGB) will be included in the fully accessible route (FAR) universe. The government has also scrapped the capital gains tax and tax on interest on IGBs for foreign investors to attract overseas capital. Some economists estimate that the coordinated action by the RBI and the government could attract USD30-60bn in fresh dollar inflows, and this could in turn help manage its widening current account deficit and ease stress on the balance of payments (BoP). Overall, this reflects India’s resolve to support growth and the INR amid the oil shock, with the RBI opting to not use policy rates to defend the INR but instead use other tools to stem INR deprecation. Yet, given India’s inflation trajectory faces increasing upward pressure, the risk of rate hike by the RBI is rising in the coming months. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has launched ICICI Pru Signature Secure, Indian life insurance’s first Unit Linked Insurance Plan (ULIP) with an in-built guaranteed maturity benefit. ICICI Pru Signature Secure is a Non Participating Linked Individual Savings Life Insurance Plan and has been designed for customers looking for the reassurance of tax efficient guaranteed benefits. The product offers a simple proposition - invest once, stay protected through life cover during the policy term and receive a maturity benefit at the end of five years. . On maturity, the customer receives the higher of the fund value or the guaranteed maturity benefit, providing the reassurance of a guaranteed outcome. For instance, a 45-year-old customer looking for a one-time investment solution can invest ₹5 lacs in ICICI Pru Signature Secure and remain protected through life cover during the policy term. The customer can choose a life cover (Sum Assured) of ₹6.25 lacs and gets a guaranteed maturity benefit of ₹7 lacs in this case. Commenting on the launch, Mr. Vikas Gupta, Chief Product Officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, said, “Customers seeking guaranteed returns have traditionally relied on instruments such as fixed deposits, bonds and other guaranteed-return products. However, customers are increasingly looking for solutions that can help them achieve better post-tax outcomes along with guaranteed returns and financial protection. ICICI Pru Signature Secure has been designed to address this need by bringing together the benefits of a ULIP, an in-built guaranteed maturity benefit and life cover within a single proposition. The product enables customers to make a one-time investment while remaining focused on their long-term financial goals with greater confidence. The plan also offers life cover throughout the policy term, helping customers secure the financial future of their loved ones.” Notably, the product provides a guaranteed maturity benefit of up to 140% of the initial premium paid. At maturity, customers receive the higher of the fund value or the guaranteed maturity benefit. In addition, the product comes with zero premium allocation charges and policy administration charges India Mortgage Guarantee Corporation (IMGC) regulated by the Reserve Bank of India, has strengthened its leadership team with two key appointments. The company has elevated Mr. Pawan Kumar to the role of Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and appointed Mr. Abhimanyu Behera as Vice President – Risk. These leadership changes come as IMGC continues to expand its mortgage guarantee business and enhance its focus on governance, portfolio oversight, data-driven decision-making and policy excellence in India’s evolving housing finance ecosystem. In his expanded role as Chief Risk Officer, Pawan Kumar will be responsible for leading the company’s risk management function, including credit policy, portfolio monitoring, governance, and strategic oversight. He will continue to focus on strengthening risk frameworks, enhancing operational efficiency through automation, and advancing monitoring capabilities to support the organisation’s long-term objectives He brings about 18+ years of cross-functional experience in analytics, risk strategy, business intelligence, credit policy, and management consulting. Before joining IMGC, he was associated with Citigroup and Essex Lake Consulting Group, where he developed a strong foundation in quantitative risk assessment and strategic advisory. He holds a degree in Economics from Shri Ram College of Commerce and a master’s degree from the Delhi School of Economics. Mr Abhimanyu Behera, who joins as Vice President – Risk, will be responsible for policy formulation, portfolio governance and underwriting standards. he brings over 15 years of experience in banking and risk management. Prior to joining IMGC, he served as Senior Vice President – Risk Policy at SMFG India Credit and has held leadership roles at HDFC Bank, IDFC FIRST Bank and ICICI Bank, with expertise spanning credit risk, policy formulation and mortgage lending. He is a Chartered Accountant with certifications in IFRS and SAP. Umesh Sharma, CIO- Debt, The Wealth Company Mutual Fund. Debt-oriented schemes witnessed significant redemptions of approximately ₹97,000 crore in May, led by outflows from the shorter end of the curve, particularly liquid, overnight, and money market funds. The withdrawals were driven by tighter liquidity conditions, which pushed short-term yields higher. Elevated Bank CDs and securities papers supply further weighed on the short end of the market. Additionally, sustained energy price levels and concerns over El Niño’s impact dampened sentiment, with investors anticipating tighter monetary conditions ahead of the Reserve Bank of India’s policy meeting in early June. Equity-oriented schemes saw a moderation in flows during May, with net inflows easing to around ₹22,000 crore compared to over ₹35,000 crore in each of the preceding three months. Despite this slowdown, investor preference remained firmly tilted towards the broader market, as mid-cap, small-cap, and flexi-cap funds attracted the highest inflows, while large-cap funds witnessed relatively subdued participation. Hybrid schemes also reflected a moderation in activity, recording inflows of nearly ₹10,000 crore, though arbitrage and multi-asset allocation funds continued to be the most favored categories, underscoring demand for diversified and lower-volatility strategies. In contrast, inflows into other categories such as index funds, ETFs, and gold funds were muted, suggesting a more cautious stance towards passive and commodity-linked exposures during the month. May trends reflected tighter liquidity conditions and heightened macroeconomic risks, leading investors to scale back incremental allocations across asset classes. Outflows from short-term debt categories, alongside moderated equity and hybrid inflows, underscored a cautious stance as rising yields, currency pressures, and persistent energy costs weighed on sentiment ahead of the RBI’s policy review. Chairman and CEO of Lumina Datamatics and TNQTech, has been honored with India’s Top 50 CEOs, MDs, and Founders Recognition by the Great Manager Institute®️ for 2026, marking his second consecutive year receiving this prestigious recognition. Officially announced on June 9, 2026, this recognition celebrates leaders who have demonstrated exceptional capabilities in inspiring, empowering, and developing their teams while consistently delivering outstanding business outcomes. The honour underscores Sameer’s commitment to building people-centric organisations and fostering a culture rooted in collaboration, innovation and excellence. Under his leadership, Lumina Datamatics and TNQTech have continued to reinforce their position as trusted global partners, driven by a strong focus on customers, employees, and long-term sustainable growth. His leadership philosophy emphasizes creating an environment where people are encouraged to learn, grow, and contribute meaningfully to organizational success. Despite heightened uncertainty and volatility, Indian equity mutual funds witnessed positive inflows in May 2026. Net inflows in active equity mutual funds moderated to approx. Rs. 22,908 crores in May 2026 on account of market volatility and geopolitical uncertainty. While investor allocation reflected a cautious and selective approach to a few categories amid market volatility. Flexi Cap Funds continued to emerge as the leading contributor with flows of Rs. 5,175.54 crores followed by Small cap Funds which garnered flows of Rs. 4,945.57 crores and Mid Cap Funds with flows of Rs. 4,385.06 crores. Notably, contribution of Small cap Funds and Mid Cap Funds to the overall active net equity flows increased to 40% in May 2026 from 35% contribution in April 2026. This indicates that investors continue to look at equities as a long-term wealth creation avenue despite short-term market volatility. A long-term investment horizon remains critical to harness the full potential of wealth creation opportunities. In the Hybrid Funds category, more than 91% of net flows were in Arbitrage Funds and Multi Asset Allocation Funds and these 2 funds categories continue to be preferred by investors. Systematic Investment Plan (SIP) contributions remain strong at Rs. 30,954 crores marginally lower than Rs. 31,115 crores recorded in April 2026, that demonstrates continued investor commitment for long term investing through disciplined approach of investing through SIPs. Overall, big takeaway is retail flows have remained resilient but discretionary /lumpsum flows have witnessed moderation in month of May 2026 on account of geopolitical uncertainty and market volatility. “Debt-oriented schemes witnessed significant redemptions of approximately ₹97,000 crore in May, led by outflows from the shorter end of the curve, particularly liquid, overnight, and money market funds. The withdrawals were driven by tighter liquidity conditions, which pushed short-term yields higher. Elevated Bank CDs and securities papers supply further weighed on the short end of the market. Additionally, sustained energy price levels and concerns over El Niño’s impact dampened sentiment, with investors anticipating tighter monetary conditions ahead of the Reserve Bank of India’s policy meeting in early June. Equity-oriented schemes saw a moderation in flows during May, with net inflows easing to around ₹22,000 crore compared to over ₹35,000 crore in each of the preceding three months. Despite this slowdown, investor preference remained firmly tilted towards the broader market, as mid-cap, small-cap, and flexi-cap funds attracted the highest inflows, while large-cap funds witnessed relatively subdued participation. Hybrid schemes also reflected a moderation in activity, recording inflows of nearly ₹10,000 crore, though arbitrage and multi-asset allocation funds continued to be the most favored categories, underscoring demand for diversified and lower-volatility strategies. In contrast, inflows into other categories such as index funds, ETFs, and gold funds were muted, suggesting a more cautious stance towards passive and commodity-linked exposures during the month. May trends reflected tighter liquidity conditions and heightened macroeconomic risks, leading investors to scale back incremental allocations across asset classes. Outflows from short-term debt categories, alongside moderated equity and hybrid inflows, underscored a cautious stance as rising yields, currency pressures, and persistent energy costs weighed on sentiment ahead of the RBI’s policy review.” There has been an across-the-board drop in collections in mutual funds. Neither equity nor hybrid and even debt funds have not been spared. Investors appear to be fatigued with the markets, which has been completely sideways for the past two years. SIPs have also dipped continuously over the past 2 months. The trend could lead to more stoppages, with even the FIIs selling off from India. The next 2 months will be critical for the Indian markets as we see the impact of the monsoon, as well as first quarter results for FY 26-27 India’s equity-oriented mutual funds recorded net inflows of ₹22,908 crore in May 2026, easing 24% below the 12-month average — a slight breather after two exceptionally strong months. Small Cap (+8% vs. average) was the sole outperformer; Mid Cap held firm at -3%. The pullback in Flexi Cap (-34%), Sectoral/Thematic (-74%), and Focused Funds (-38%) reflects a healthy rotation from concentrated themes toward diversified core portfolios — a sign of deepening investor maturity. Balanced Advantage Funds (₹181 crores, -88%) and Multi Asset Allocation Funds (₹3,929 crores, -31%) eased as recovering equity markets drew investors directly into pure equity rather than through defensive allocation structures. Gold ETFs turned negative at −₹725 crore — 112% below their 12-month average — marking a meaningful unwinding of the multi-month gold theme. Through volatility, recovery, and consolidation alike, Indians continue to invest their savings in MFs. AU SFB has revised its FD, RD and FCNR deposit rates effective June 10, 2026. Customers can now earn up to 7.40% p.a. on FDs and RDs, while senior citizens can earn up to 7.90% p.a., strengthening the bank’s savings proposition for residents and NRIs. AU Small Finance Bank Raises FCNR Deposit Rates to 7.10%; Strengthens End-to-End NRI Banking Proposition - AU SFB has increased FCNR deposit rates from 5.15% to 7.10% p.a. and enhanced its NRI offering with zero forex margin and zero bank charges on eligible remittances, providing a comprehensive savings and banking solution for NRIs. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has launched ICICI Pru Signature Secure, Indian life insurance’s first Unit Linked Insurance Plan (ULIP) with an in-built guaranteed maturity benefit. ICICI Pru Signature Secure is a Non Participating Linked Individual Savings Life Insurance Plan and has been designed for customers looking for the reassurance of tax efficient guaranteed benefits. The product offers a simple proposition - invest once, stay protected through life cover during the policy term and receive a maturity benefit at the end of five years. . On maturity, the customer receives the higher of the fund value or the guaranteed maturity benefit, providing the reassurance of a guaranteed outcome. Karur Vysya Bank has increased its FCNR(B) US Dollar (USD) deposit rates for maturities of 3 years to 5 years to 7 per cent per annum from the earlier rate of 2.63% per annum with effect from June 10, 2026. Karur Vysya Bank raises FCNR(B) US Dollar deposit rates to 7% for 3-5 years, boosting foreign currency inflows. The moderation in net inflows during May reflects a degree of geopolitical uncertainty and investor caution; however, we view this as a phase of healthy consolidation rather than any reversal in sentiment. Having witnessed strong inflows in recent months, a cooling-off period is both natural and constructive for the market. Importantly, industry AUM remains resilient at over ₹81 lakh crore, with the marginal decline largely driven by market movements and institutional outflows in debt schemes rather than any structural slowdown. The outflows seen in fixed income categories particularly liquid, overnight, and money market funds are indicative of liquidity management and corporate treasury requirements, rather than a weakening in demand. On the equity side, while inflows moderated to ₹22,908 crore from April levels, they remain firmly positive. This also shows the continued confidence of investors in equities as a long-term wealth creation vehicle, despite ongoing market volatility and valuation concerns. We are encouraged to see flexi-cap funds leading inflows, followed by mid-cap, small-cap, and large & mid-cap categories, reflecting a clear preference for diversification and active management in a selective market environment. The moderation in flows across these segments suggests that investors are becoming more discerning, which is a positive trend. The rupee is likely to average around 96/USD in FY27, however, the outlook remains subject to key downside risks, including potential US dollar appreciation and a rate hike scenario, geopolitical developments, and movements in crude oil prices, according to a report by brokerage house Motilal Oswal. Strong capital inflows, RBI intervention and ample forex reserves expected to limit depreciation “The mutual fund industry witnessed a notable moderation in May 2026, with net equity inflows slumping to ₹22,907.77 crore. This deceleration was broad-based across the board, significantly impacting flexi-cap, small-cap, and mid-cap allocations. Concurrently, the monthly SIP contribution dipped to ₹30,954 crore. While seemingly a marginal 0.5% month-on-month decline, this consecutive drop, following a 3% dip in April, is beginning to signal a valid cause for concern. With flat to negative returns observed in several SIP vintages over the past 1-2 years, retail investors are increasingly viewing sustained allocations as a challenge, which is testing their long-term conviction. From a broader portfolio perspective, a strategic realignment is clearly underway. Debt funds experienced sharp net outflows of ₹96,948.51 crore, reversing the institutional treasury surge seen at the start of the financial year. Even alternative allocations faced pressure, with Gold ETFs swinging to a net outflow of ₹725.04 crore. However, Hybrid schemes continued to attract capital, securing net inflows of ₹10,560.24 crore. This suggests that while outright equity aggression is cooling, investors are actively seeking balanced, risk-adjusted exposures amidst the prevailing market headwinds. New fund activity also remained subdued, with 13 launches mobilizing just ₹471 crore during the month.” Sagar Cements, has successfully commissioned and commenced its commercial operations of additional installed capacity of 0.5 million tonnes per annum at its cement manufacturing plant at Jeerabad, TehsilGandhwani, Dhar District, Madhya Pradesh. Sagar Cements boosts production with a new 0.5 MTPA capacity plant in Madhya Pradesh, increasing total grinding capacity to 1.5 MTPA. India’s current account deficit (CAD) is expected to remain in the range of 1.5-1.7 per cent of GDP in FY27, but a series of recent measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) could help improve the country’s external position and push the overall balance of payments (BoP) into surplus, according to a report by SBI Research. India's current account deficit may persist in FY27, but RBI measures could lead to a balance of payments surplus, says SBI. “Recent FPI selling in the BFSI sector reflects a challenging global macroeconomic environment marked by elevated bond yields, higher crude oil prices, commodity cost pressures, and currency volatility. While these factors may lead to some moderation in earnings expectations, the long-term fundamentals of the Indian economy and financial sector remain strong. The ongoing correction is helping valuations normalize and improving the risk-reward equation for long-term investors. Within BFSI, private sector banks remain well-positioned to benefit from rising credit demand and evolving interest rate dynamics. Given India’s diversified market structure and resilient domestic growth drivers, investors should focus on disciplined asset allocation and diversification rather than attempting to time short-term market movements.” Emcure Pharmaceuticals stock rose 1.55 per cent to ₹1,769.70 on the BSE. Bain Capital on Tuesday divested nearly a 2 per cent stake in Emcure Pharmaceuticals to Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund for ₹612 crore through open market transactions. Ajanta Pharma shares rose 1.5 per cent on the BSE to ₹3,060.05 after Ravi Agrawal Trust, one of the promoters of Ajanta Pharma, sold nearly a 3 per cent stake in the company for ₹1,024 crore through an open market transaction on Tuesday. BlueStone shares traded flat on the BSE at ₹530. IvyCap Ventures, Accel, and 360 ONE offloaded a total of 46.36 lakh shares, amounting to a 3.04 per cent stake in BlueStone Jewellery and Lifestyle for nearly ₹243 crore through open market transactions. JTL Industries has secured a significant order from the Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd for the supply of G.I. pipes to various divisions of Jal Shakti Vibhag in Himachal Pradesh. Shares traded at ₹71.28 on the NSE. Benchmark equity indices traded firmly higher in Wednesday’s afternoon session, defying weakness across global markets, led by strong buying in FMCG and private banking stocks. Asset management companies may report executive remuneration on a consolidated basis instead of naming individuals. Wanbury Ltd’s API manufacturing site at Tanuku, Andhra Pradesh has completed the quality inspection by the TGA, Therapeutic Goods Administration, which is a drug regulatory agency of Australia. The GMP certificate, once received, will enable Wanbury to ship three additional APIs. Shares traded at ₹263.95 on the NSE, down 1 per cent. Astra Microwave Products Ltd has approved a scheme of arrangement for the demerger of its space, meteorology and hydrology business into its wholly-owned subsidiary, Astra Space Technologies Pvt Ltd (ASTPL), on a going concern basis. Under the scheme, ASTPL will issue shares to AMPL shareholders based on a determined share exchange ratio. Shares traded flat at ₹1,453 on the NSE. J.K. Shah Classes (JKSC), a Veranda enterprise, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Japan-based CPA Excellent Partners (CPAEP) to collaborate on talent development, talent placement, direct recruitment, and career support for accounting and finance professionals across global markets. “The decline in equity inflows reflects investors’ nervousness given the evolving macroeconomic landscape. This environment is heavily impacted by the West Asia crisis, a crude oil shock, inflation, and rupee depreciation, combined with a slowing corporate earnings growth outlook driven by margin compression and expected interest rate hikes. While broader market returns remained flattish for the month of May, the resilience observed in SIP flows—which dipped by only 0.5%—is noteworthy amidst slowing inflows in overall equities and net redemptions from debt funds. We also observe net redemptions from gold schemes, which broke a 13-month streak of inflows. The fall in gold prices triggered a net outflow from Gold ETFs, highlighting the tendency of investors to chase recent performance trends”. Jash Engineering received consolidated orders worth ₹34 crore in May 2026, out of which orders worth ₹15 crore are for the Indian market and orders worth ₹19 crore are for markets outside India. In today’s commodity market, gold prices fell to $4205.10 per ounce (approximately ₹1,28,762 per 10 grams), reflecting a decline of 1.29%, while silver dropped to $64.07 per ounce (around ₹1,96,185 per kg), down 1.57%. The pullback in both precious metals was driven by a stronger dollar and rising bond yields, which dampened the appeal of these safe-haven assets amidst ongoing geopolitical tensions and inflation concerns. Meanwhile, crude oil prices saw a slight uptick, trading at $88.25 per barrel (approximately ₹8,405), supported by supply constraints and recovering demand as global economies continue to rebound. May 2026 witnessed a distinct cooling in mutual fund investment activity, with actively managed equity fund inflows slumping by 40.4% m-o-m to Rs 229.07 bn - the lowest monthly level recorded this calendar year. This fall was broad-based, with significant declines across large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap segments, while flexi-cap and sectoral thematic funds experienced even sharper contractions compared to April 2026. Despite this moderation in lump-sum equity flows, Systematic Investment Plan (SIP) contributions displayed remarkable resilience. At Rs 309.54 bn, SIP inflows saw only a marginal 0.5% dip from April 2026, marking the third consecutive month that this steady retail-driven channel has held above the Rs.300bn crore threshold, thereby sustaining the underlying structural uptrend in retail participation. India's ₹12-lakh tax gap hinders plug-in hybrid cars, pushing them into premium segments and complicating the electrification transition. New Khalapur facility to power expansion of the company’s ₹1,000 crore material handling business to meet the rising demand from India’s fast-growing online retail ecosystem Welspun Corp shares declined 3 per cent to ₹1,368.30 on the NSE. The company informed the exchanges that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Welspun Mauritius Holdings Ltd (WMHL), has divested a 4.5 per cent equity stake in Saudi Arabia-based East Pipes Integrated Company for Industry (EPIC) for SAR 283.46 million (about ₹650 crore). Hinduja Group Solutions shares rallied 14 per cent to ₹454.45 on the NSE. The company informed the exchanges that its OneOTT Intertainment has launched Project GANGA in Uttar Pradesh in association with the state government. “May’s AMFI data shows equity inflows at ₹22,908 crore, a 40% drop from April. The headline looks sharp, but context is everything. Markets corrected meaningfully, with Sensex down 2.5–3% and Nifty off ~2.5%, compounded by geopolitical tension, crude volatility, and FII outflows. Flexi Cap, the industry’s bellwether, saw inflows halve from ₹10,148 crore to ₹5,176 crore. Thematic and Value/Contra categories took the biggest hit, as they always do when sentiment softens. But Mid and Small Cap held their ground, which tells you something important: the SIP book is sticky. It is lumpsum that moderated. In Hybrids, Multi Asset Allocation was the standout at ₹3,929 crore, while BAF bore the sharpest correction within the space. Gold ETF flipped to an outflow of ₹725 crore after months of strong inflows, classic profit-booking after a sustained rally. The number I keep coming back to is SIP at ₹30,954 crore. That single data point tells you the structural story is unbroken. Retail India is not running, it is staying, averaging, and compounding. Industry AUM holds steady at ₹81.05 lakh crore. NFO flows have cooled, and frankly, that is a healthy sign.” “The moderation in equity mutual fund inflows reflects a more cautious investor sentiment amid heightened geopolitical uncertainty and increased market volatility. Concerns over global developments, particularly tensions in the Middle East and fluctuating crude oil prices, have led many investors to adopt a wait-and-watch approach rather than make fresh allocations. While near-term sentiment may remain subdued, the underlying structural growth story for Indian equities remains intact, and disciplined long-term investing continues to be the most effective strategy for wealth creation.” Sagar Cements (M) Private Ltd (SCMPL) has commissioned and commenced commercial operations of an additional installed capacity of 0.5 MTPA at its cement manufacturing plant at Jeerabad, Tehsil Gandhwani, Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh. Sula Vineyards has approved the sale of its registered office premises at 901, Solaris One, Andheri East, Mumbai for a minimum consideration of ₹27 crore to a third-party buyer that is not related to the company or its promoter group. Consequently, the board has also approved shifting the registered office from 901 to 201, Solaris One, Andheri East, Mumbai, effective July 1, 2026, under the jurisdiction of ROC Mumbai. The private-sector lender will offer 7% on three-year FCNR(B) deposits, 7.05% on four-year deposits and 7.10% on five-year deposits, a spokesperson for the bank said ​Volatile equity markets, global uncertainty takes heavy toll on MF inflowsThe volatile equity markets and cloud over economic growth have taken its toll on inflows into mutual fund schemes including that of SIP in May.​ The volatile equity markets and cloud over economic growth have taken its toll on inflows into mutual fund schemes including that of SIP in May. NSE/BSE-listed Elitecon International has announced a ₹700 crore FMCG expansion roadmap targeting ₹20,000 crore revenue by FY30, backed by a $119 million+ international tobacco order book across Africa and West Asia. Marsons has received an order for the supply of various quantities of 17.6 MVA, 8.8 MVA and 4.4 MVA oil cooled (ONAN), OCTC, outdoor type, aluminium wound, inverter duty transformers worth ₹33.18 crore from Vikran Engineering Ltd for the NTPC Renewable Energy Project. Hindustan Zinc has partnered with Sulfozyme Agro under the Zinc Park initiative to advance sustainable metal recovery. Shares traded at ₹550.50 on the NSE, down 2 per cent. Adani Energy Solutions stock traded at ₹1,551.50 on the NSE, down 2 per cent after a flat opening at ₹1,580. The company has signed the securities purchase and subscription agreement (“SPSA”) with the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (“NIIF”), Energy Efficiency Services Ltd and Intellismart Infrastructure Private Ltd for acquiring 100 per cent of the equity share capital of Intellismart and redemption of the optionally convertible debentures of Intellismart held by NIIF. Dixon Tech soared 2 per cent to ₹11,864 on the NSE after entering a binding joint venture term sheet with Gemtek to manufacture optical transceivers and networking gear focusing on the data centre and telecom ecosystem. Nephrocare Health Care Services, Philippines Inc., an overseas step-down wholly-owned subsidiary of Nephrocare Health Services, has entered into an Asset Transfer Agreement (“ATA”) with Amica Healthcare System Corporation for the acquisition of identified assets relating to a dialysis centre located at Dona Soledad, Don Bosco, Paranaque City, Philippines, for a total consideration of PhP 32 million. LTM introduced BlueVerse Currency, an AI-linked commercial model that prices enterprise work by outcomes rather than effort consumed as enterprises scale agency AI across core processes. Shares were flat at ₹3,973 on the NSE. Asian markets fall as Wall Street tech stocks decline; oil prices rise amid US-Iran tensions following military strikes. Production at Hyundai Motor India’s Chennai Plant 1 in Sriperumbudur, which was affected by a fire at key supplier Mobis India Ltd on May 31, is expected to regain pace by June 15, with all operations returning to normal by June 22, the company said in a stock exchange filing on Wednesday. CMR Green Technologies listed at a 43% premium on BSE and 40% on NSE. The IPO was subscribed 9.59 times, with strong demand across investor categories. The NII portion was subscribed 21.80 times, followed by the retail portion at 7.91 times, employee portion at 6.79 times, and QIB portion at 3.45 times. The IPO was a ₹630.88 crore book-built issue entirely comprising an offer for sale of 3.29 crore shares. The issue opened on June 3, 2026, and closed on June 5, with a price band of ₹182–192 per share and tentative listing on NSE and BSE on June 10, 2026. At the upper price band, the retail lot of 78 shares requires ₹14,976. CMR Green Technologies’ listing at a 43% premium has sharpened investor focus on India’s organised recycling and circular economy theme, particularly as more companies from the space prepare to tap public markets. Ardee Industries adds that IPO-bound dimension to the story. Headquartered in New Delhi and established in 1993, the company operates an integrated manufacturing facility at Naidupet, Andhra Pradesh, with an installed refining capacity of 1,04,025 MTPA. While its FY25 market share in recycled lead ingots stands at 1.5%, Ardee operates in a high-relevance pocket of the circular economy, recycling end-of-life energy storage products and non-ferrous scrap into materials used across energy storage, e-mobility, automotive and chemical industries. Its proposed IPO, comprising a fresh issue of ₹320 crore and an offer for sale of up to 3.765 crore shares, could offer public market investors another route to participate in India’s green industrial and mobility transition. IIFL Home Finance, one of India’s leading affordable housing finance companies, has partnered with the Cricket Association for the Blind in India (CABI) and Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled to support and strengthen Cricket for the Blind in India. As part of this collaboration, the organisations have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to organise the India–Nepal Bilateral Blind Cricket Series, featuring five T20 matches scheduled to be held in the Delhi-NCR region in October 2026. The engagement aims to provide visually impaired cricketers with a competitive international platform while strengthening awareness of and participation in blind cricket across the country. Hindustan Oil Exploration Company said gas sales from the B-80 field have been temporarily halted due to asset integrity-related maintenance work. The company said preventive and corrective measures are being undertaken to ensure safe and reliable operations in line with safety standards. Oil sales from the field continue at lower rates, and the company will inform exchanges once gas sales resume. Shares traded at Rs 177.63 on the NSE, down 3% The court ruling comes as a relief for the telecom major, which had challenged the substantial demand raised by authorities. Meta and CleanMax Partner on Approx 900 MW of Renewable Energy Capacity in India NPST stock gained over 5% in today’s session ahead of the company’s Q4 and FY26 results announcement. The rally comes amid continued investor interest in the digital payments space and follows Tata Mutual Fund’s recent ₹300 crore investment in the company, which has further strengthened market sentiment around NPST’s growth prospects. With digital payments adoption continuing to accelerate in India and NPST expanding its presence across banking and payment infrastructure solutions, the company remains closely watched by investors ahead of its earnings announcement. Reliance and Meta to Develop AI-Enabled Data Centre in Jamnagar, Gujarat CMR Green Technologies made a strong stock market debut, listing at a premium of over 40% to its IPO price of ₹192 per share, reflecting strong investor interest in the company’s position as a leading non-ferrous metal recycler and secondary aluminium producer. While the impressive listing highlights positive market sentiment, investors should remember that the IPO was entirely an Offer for Sale (OFS), meaning the company did not receive any fresh capital and existing shareholders reduced their stakes through the issue. Following such a sharp listing gain, some profit booking and short-term volatility are likely. Investors who received allotment may consider booking partial profits while continuing to hold the remaining shares for the medium to long term, given the company’s exposure to the growing recycled metals industry. New investors should avoid chasing the stock at elevated levels and wait for a correction or consolidation before considering fresh entries. Overall, caution is warranted after the strong debut. Investors may maintain a stop loss at cost i.e. 192 to protect gains, as a sustained move below this level could indicate weakening momentum. Afcons Infra shares surge 10% after winning ₹5,301 crore Vadhvan Port project, highlighting India's marine infrastructure capabilities. Hind Rectifiers board has approved changing the company’s name to “Hirect Limited”, subject to shareholder and Ministry of Corporate Affairs approvals. The board also approved increasing the authorised share capital to ₹30 crore from ₹10 crore by raising the equity share capital to 15 crore shares of ₹2 each from 5 crore shares earlier, subject to shareholder approval. NLC India shares were down 2% to Rs 320.40 on the NSE. The government will exercise its oversubscription option for up to a 1% stake in the ongoing OFS, bringing the total offer size to 4.2 lakh cr shares, or a 3% stake Patanjali Foods stock traded flat at Rs 426.15 on the NSE. Company received a notice from the Maharashtra FDA regarding misleading juice advertisements and promotional labelling. The company clarified that no monetary penalty has been imposed Bitcoin’s correction, despite its magnitude, should be viewed within the context of broader macroeconomic conditions, liquidity cycles, and evolving risk appetite across global markets. While capital has recently rotated toward high-growth sectors such as artificial intelligence, digital assets continue to remain highly sensitive to shifts in monetary policy, investor sentiment, and liquidity availability. Over the past two years, spot Bitcoin ETFs have attracted tens of billions of dollars in cumulative inflows and now hold well over $100 billion in assets, fundamentally changing how institutional capital accesses the asset class. At the same time, Bitcoin’s current drawdown remains materially lower than the 70-90% corrections witnessed in earlier cycles, pointing to a market structure that is gradually maturing._ While short-term sentiment has weakened amid ETF outflows and capital rotation into high-growth sectors such as AI, the long-term investment thesis around digital assets continues to be driven by adoption, institutional access, and the increasing integration of crypto into mainstream financial markets. For long-term investors, periods of correction often serve as a reminder that market cycles are temporary, but structural adoption trends tend to play out over much longer horizons.” CMR Green Technologies' shares debut at a 43.4% premium on BSE, reflecting strong investor demand for its IPO. Ceigall India informed that its project special purpose vehicle (SPV), Ceigall Ambala Chandigarh Zirakpur Ltd, has executed the concession agreement with the National Highways Authority of India. The project cost is ₹603 crore. Shares were flat at ₹368 on the NSE. Bullish Nifty 50 forecast for June 10, 2026; expect rise to 23,480 with strategic long positions on dips. Nuvama Wealth Management gains approval to launch mutual fund operations, starting with specialized investment products for diverse clients. Benchmark equity indices opened marginally flat on Wednesday but gained in early trade despite renewed geopolitical tensions in West Asia against resilient domestic sentiment. At the interbank foreign exchange market the rupee opened at 95.52, then lost ground and touched 95.56 in initial trade, registering a fall of 15 paise from its previous close Hyundai Motor said production at its Pune plant and Chennai Plant 2 remains largely unaffected following the fire incident at supplier Mobis India’s facility. The temporary disruption is mainly limited to Chennai Plant 1, which is expected to regain production pace by June 15, while full normalisation across operations is likely by June 22. The company said it is sourcing automotive parts from alternate locations and expects most of the production loss to be recovered in the next quarter. Hyundai also said it does not foresee any significant impact on retail sales in June 2026 due to adequate inventory across its network. Shares were flat at ₹1,915 on the NSE. Infosys (Reco: Buy, FV: Rs. 1440) - Infosys annual report takeaways Infosys’s annual report provides a few interesting insights. Key takeaways are (1) sluggish growth in the BPO business with further margin decline, (2) further deterioration in the employee mix, with a higher skew toward mid-level employees, (3) a sharp increase in learning hours, (4) robust growth in UK and Australian consulting arms, (5) mixed acquisition performance, (6) a sharper decline in attrition rates in mid- and senior levels and (7) continuation of the healthy average wage increase for India-based employees, even as median remuneration increases moderate. Retain BUY; FV of Rs1,440. Insurance (Sector View: Attractive) - Growth moderates Individual APE growth for the private sector moderated to 12% yoy in May 2026, compared with 22% yoy in April 2026 (12% yoy growth in FY2026). All top‑four private insurers reported softer individual APE growth. Axis Max Life continued to outperform, delivering 16% yoy growth on a higher base. ICICI Prudential Life and SBI Life reported 6% and 8% yoy growth, respectively, on a lower base, while HDFC Life reported ~6% yoy growth on a higher base. LIC reported healthy 15% yoy growth on a lower base. Disclaimer: https://www.kotaksecurities.com/disclaimer/research/ Bitcoin remained under pressure on June 10. Investors continued to navigate weak institutional flows and elevated macroeconomic uncertainty. Market participants were also positioning cautiously ahead of key US economic data releases. As a result, Bitcoin traded near $61,700, extending the correction that began in early June. The market now appears to be searching for a catalyst that could help restore risk appetite. From a technical perspective, the immediate support zone lies between $60,750 and $61,000. A decisive break below that range could expose the psychologically important $60,000 level, while stronger support is seen closer to the upper-$59,000 region. On the upside, Bitcoin faces resistance around $63,000-$63,500, followed by a more significant barrier near $65,000. Until those levels are reclaimed, short-term momentum is likely to remain subdued. Market sentiment continues to be shaped by institutional activity. US spot Bitcoin ETFs recorded net outflows of approximately $91 million in the latest available session, extending a broader period of capital withdrawals from the asset class. ETF outflows have continued despite Bitcoin’s recent correction. This suggests that institutional investors are still taking a cautious approach to the market. Interestingly, on-chain indicators do not yet point to widespread capitulation. Bitcoin continues to hold above its long-term 200-week moving average, a level closely watched by market participants during major corrections. Meanwhile, derivatives markets still show relatively elevated open interest. This indicates that leveraged positions remain active even as spot demand weakens. Such conditions can increase short-term volatility while also creating the potential for sharp directional moves. The broader macro environment remains a key driver. Investors are closely monitoring US inflation trends and Federal Reserve policy expectations. A recent Reuters survey indicated that most economists expect the Fed to keep rates unchanged through the remainder of 2026, reflecting persistent inflation concerns and a resilient labour market. Any upside surprise in inflation data could further delay expectations for monetary easing, potentially weighing on risk assets including cryptocurrencies. Major altcoins broadly mirrored Bitcoin’s weakness. Ethereum traded near $1,637, BNB hovered around $592, XRP remained near $1.13, Solana changed hands close to $65, and TRON traded around $0.32. The absence of meaningful outperformance among large-cap altcoins suggests investors remain focused on capital preservation rather than aggressive risk-taking. For now, the market appears caught between two competing forces. Institutional flows continue to reflect a cautious outlook. At the same time, on-chain data does not yet show the level of stress typically seen during major capitulation events. How those signals evolve alongside incoming inflation data and Federal Reserve guidance will likely determine the next direction for crypto markets. Nuvama Wealth Management Ltd (”Nuvama”) today announced that it has received the final approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to commence mutual fund operations through its asset management arm, Nuvama Asset Management Ltd (“AMC”). The approval marks an important milestone in Nuvama’s journey to build a scaled asset management franchise, and as the next step, the AMC will seek necessary approvals to launch investment products under the Specialized Investment Fund (SIF) framework, followed by a broader range of mutual fund offerings over time. India's ‌sharp increase in gold import tariffs is fuelling a resurgence ​in smuggling that could exceed 100 metric tons this year, as soaring grey market ⁠margins allow smugglers to undercut banks and refiners of ⁠the precious metal August Brent oil futures were at $92.05, up by 0.66%, and July crude oil futures on WTI (West Texas Intermediate) were at $88.71, up by 0.58% Government clarifies there are no plans to replace paper currency with plastic notes, dismissing social media claims as fake. Reliance Industries and Meta partner to create a 168 MW AI-enabled data center in Gujarat, enhancing India's tech infrastructure. Mexico: Inflation returned to target, easing pressure on policymakers. U.S.: Tech-led stock weakness persisted despite steady foreign demand for Treasuries. China: AI-driven exports surged as producer inflation strengthened, though commodity imports softened. Japan: Rising energy costs boosted inflation, increasing pressure for further rate hikes. India: Higher oil prices from Iran tensions are straining growth, subsidies, and public finances. Indonesia: Surprise rate hike aimed to stabilize the weakening rupiah. South Korea: Economic growth outperformed earlier estimates in Q1. Taiwan: AI demand pushed exports to one of their strongest months on record. Europe: Banks seek regulatory easing to help close a massive investment gap. Germany: Stronger exports offset concerns over weak industrial production. UK: Consumer spending improved, but growth and employment concerns persist. Source: Reuters “Nifty is expected to open slightly lower around 23,160, down nearly 80 points, indicating a cautious start as markets continue to react to global developments. The index is trading close to a crucial support zone of 23,000–23,100, which has become an important level for the bulls to defend. A sustained move below this range could increase selling pressure and open the door for further downside. On the upside, 23,400–23,500 remains the immediate resistance zone. Any recovery towards this range may face selling pressure unless supported by strong buying momentum. The market continues to remain highly news-sensitive, and sharp intraday swings cannot be ruled out. Traders should closely monitor support levels, as they are likely to determine the next directional move. For now, the setup remains cautious, with a level-based approach preferred over aggressive positioning.” “Bitcoin is trading around the $61,000–$62,000 range as geopolitical tensions following U.S. strikes on Iran continue to weigh on market sentiment. The recent decline has been accompanied by broader weakness across digital assets, reflecting a cautious environment where investors are prioritising capital preservation amid heightened uncertainty. At the same time, institutional activity remains mixed. Recent ETF outflows and corporate portfolio rebalancing have contributed to near-term selling pressure, limiting Bitcoin’s ability to stage a sustained recovery despite periods of intraday stabilisation. This suggests that investors are still evaluating the broader macro landscape before increasing exposure to risk assets. Interestingly, on-chain data is beginning to show signs that warrant closer attention. One of Bitcoin’s rarest demand signals in recent years has resurfaced, indicating that underlying network demand may be strengthening even as price action remains subdued. Historically, such divergences between market sentiment and on-chain activity have often preceded shifts in broader market trends, although they do not guarantee an immediate reversal. For investors, the current phase underscores the importance of distinguishing between short-term volatility and longer-term market signals. While headline-driven uncertainty may continue to influence price action in the near term, the interaction between institutional flows, investor sentiment, and underlying demand will likely play a more significant role in shaping Bitcoin’s next major move.” Top gainers: HUL (+2.36%), Nestle India (+1.72%), Reliance (+1.62%), Tata Consumer (+1.28%), ICICI Bank (+0.85%) Top losers: Hindalco (-3.77%), Adani Enterprises (-1.14%). Tata Steel (-0.88%), COal Inida (-0.80%), Shriram Finance (-0.64%) Crude oil futures traded higher on Wednesday morning after US forces launched new strikes against Iranian targets in response to the downing of an American helicopter. At 9.23 am on Wednesday, August Brent oil futures were at $92.05, up by 0.66 per cent, and July crude oil futures on WTI were at $88.71, up by 0.58 per cent. June crude oil futures were trading at ₹8,496 on the Multi Commodity Exchange during the initial hour of trading on Wednesday against the previous close of ₹8,421, up by 0.89 per cent, while July futures were trading at ₹8,365 against the previous close of ₹8,317, up by 0.58 per cent. Borrowers opt for higher instalments and lump-sum payments citing job security and potential return to India KOSPI drops amid US strikes on Iran; foreigners turn net sellers as bond yields edge higher Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi urges withdrawal after Trump comments on downed US Apache helicopter in Strait of Hormuz Wall Street pulled back from highs on chip sector weakness despite broad gains; focus shifts to US inflation data and Fed outlook Nifty expected to open lower amid global market weakness and geopolitical tensions, with analysts highlighting key support levels. Oberoi Realty has invested ₹268.50 crore in its unit SPV Centerstage Realty for the 11-acre Bandra East RLDA redevelopment project. Deccan Gold has signed an earn-in deal to acquire up to a 95% stake in a tungsten project in Spain, with an initial investment of €1.76 million. Greenply Industries Ltd has announced its latest sustainability commitment, ‘Naam Se Hi Nahi, Kaam Se Bhi Green’, under which every Greenply plywood sheet purchased will contribute to the plantation of one tree. Rajesh Mittal, Chairman and Managing Director of Greenply Industries Ltd, said, “Our guiding principle has always been to give back to nature more than what we take. Our commitment to plant one tree for every plywood sheet supplied is that principle in action.” ​Buzzing stocks: Welspun Corp, Dixon Tech, KRN Heat, Patanjali, Quality Power, HGSKey corporate updates: Welspun divests stake, Dixon partners with Gemtek, KRN invests, Patanjali faces scrutiny, Quality Power plans acquisition.​ Key corporate updates: Welspun divests stake, Dixon partners with Gemtek, KRN invests, Patanjali faces scrutiny, Quality Power plans acquisition. Lenskart Solutions Ltd has acquired an additional 3% stake in Quantduo Technologies Private Ltd. Further, the company had earlier acquired an additional 4.65% stake in Quantduo on March 16, 2026. Accordingly, the aggregate increase in the company’s shareholding in Quantduo since the last disclosure is 7.65%. Consequent to the aforesaid acquisitions, the aggregate shareholding of the company in Quantduo has increased from 92.35% to 100% of the fully diluted share capital of Quantduo. Consequently, Quantduo has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. Buy Federal Bank shares at ₹315.15; target ₹350 with bullish short-term outlook and strong support levels. Get intraday support and resistance levels for Nifty50 stocks with trade recommendations in this comprehensive day trading guide. Published on June 10, 2026 Copyright© 2026, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments. We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions | Institutional Subscriber
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Tempus AI (TEM) Is One Of The Best Healthcare Mid-Cap AI Stock According To Analysts
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/tempus-ai-tem-one-best-092402017.html
Time Published: 2026-06-10T09:24:02Z
Description: Tempus AI Inc (NASDAQ:TEM) is one of the 12 Best Mid-Cap AI Stocks to Buy According to Analysts. On May 29, Tempus AI Inc (NASDAQ:TEM) announced that it had...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Titan Machinery Q1 Earnings Call Highlights
URL: https://www.marketbeat.com/instant-alerts/titan-machinery-q1-earnings-call-highlights-2026-06-09/?utm_source=yahoofinance&amp;utm_medium=yahoofinance
Time Published: 2026-06-09T15:06:36Z
Full Content:
Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITN reported fiscal first-quarter results that management said were slightly ahead of expectations, helped by earlier-than-anticipated equipment margin improvement, but the company reaffirmed its full-year outlook as demand remains pressured across key customer groups. President and Chief Executive Officer Bryan Knutson said the quarter benefited from disciplined efforts over recent periods to reduce aged inventory and improve the health of the company’s equipment mix. He cautioned, however, that equipment margins remain below normal levels and that the underlying customer demand environment is still challenged by low commodity prices and higher input costs. “Overall, we had a relatively strong start to the year due to timing of deliveries, but the underlying demand environment for our customers remains challenged,” Knutson said. “As such, we are maintaining our full year guidance.” Revenue Declines, but Margins Improve For the fiscal first quarter ended April 30, 2026, Titan Machinery reported total revenue of $522.4 million, down from $594.3 million in the prior-year period. Management said same-store sales decreased 10.4%, driven by softer demand in domestic agriculture, construction and Europe, partially offset by growth in Australia. Gross profit was $89.3 million, compared with $90.9 million a year earlier. Gross margin expanded to 17.1% from 15.3%, with management pointing to stronger equipment margins and a higher mix of parts and service revenue. Equipment margins rose about 100 basis points year over year to 7.8%. Operating expenses declined to $94.4 million from $96.4 million, reflecting lower headcount and discretionary spending, partially offset by higher variable expenses tied to sales activity. Floor plan and other interest expense fell 26% to $8.2 million from $11.1 million, which management attributed to lower interest-bearing inventory levels. The company reported a net loss of $12.6 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $13.2 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $1 million, down from $2.6 million a year earlier. Inventory Focus Shifts to Mix Optimization Knutson said Titan Machinery’s focus has shifted from absolute inventory reduction to “mix optimization” after two years of work to reduce aged equipment. Total inventory at quarter-end was $914.8 million, up $12 million from year-end, which management said reflected normal seasonality. Knutson said aged equipment inventory continued to decline each month so far this year and called that trend “a critical leading indicator of sustained equipment margin improvement.” He said the company still has work to do in certain used equipment categories and select slower-moving seasonal new equipment categories. The company ended the quarter with approximately $30 million in cash and an adjusted debt-to-tangible-net-worth ratio of 1.6 times, below its bank covenant of 3.5 times. Segment Performance Reflects Mixed Conditions In domestic agriculture, sales were $344.2 million, with same-store sales down 8.2% due to continued softness in equipment demand. Management said results were stronger than expected because some customer deliveries occurred earlier than anticipated. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $6.2 million from $12.8 million a year earlier, reflecting inventory actions and improved equipment margins. Knutson said the environment for growers remains difficult, with commodity prices below break-even levels for many producers and input costs still elevated. He said government support remains an important near-term variable and highlighted year-round E15 adoption, biodiesel and sustainable aviation fuel as policy areas that could help address oversupply in corn and soybeans. Construction segment sales declined 6.5% on a same-store basis to $67.5 million, primarily due to equipment delivery timing. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $0.6 million from $4.2 million. Knutson said infrastructure and data center activity are providing a healthy baseline of demand, while the portion of construction sales tied to farmers is experiencing softness similar to domestic agriculture. In Europe, sales fell to $60.4 million, including a $4.2 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue declined about 40%, mainly due to softer demand in Romania after the prior-year period benefited from European Union subvention program activity. The segment reported a pre-tax loss of $0.9 million, compared with pre-tax income of $4.7 million a year earlier. Knutson said the company completed most of the wind-down of its German operations during the quarter. Australia sales rose 14% to $50.3 million, including a $5.1 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 2.8%, helped by additional revenue from the Belle-Vue Machinery acquisition completed last fall. The segment posted a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million, compared with a $0.6 million loss a year earlier. Knutson said Australian growers are facing elevated diesel fuel and fertilizer costs, but increased rainfall has improved growing conditions across much of the company’s footprint. Full-Year Outlook Reaffirmed Management reaffirmed its fiscal 2027 assumptions despite the modestly better first quarter, saying the demand backdrop remains consistent with its prior outlook. Agriculture revenue is expected to decline 15% to 20%. Construction revenue is expected to be flat to up 5%. Europe revenue is expected to decline 20% to 25%. Australia revenue is expected to increase 10% to 15%. Full-year consolidated equipment margin is expected to be approximately 8.4%, up from 7.3% in fiscal 2026. Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report For the fiscal first quarter ended April 30, 2026, Titan Machinery reported total revenue of $522.4 million, down from $594.3 million in the prior-year period. Management said same-store sales decreased 10.4%, driven by softer demand in domestic agriculture, construction and Europe, partially offset by growth in Australia. Gross profit was $89.3 million, compared with $90.9 million a year earlier. Gross margin expanded to 17.1% from 15.3%, with management pointing to stronger equipment margins and a higher mix of parts and service revenue. Equipment margins rose about 100 basis points year over year to 7.8%. Operating expenses declined to $94.4 million from $96.4 million, reflecting lower headcount and discretionary spending, partially offset by higher variable expenses tied to sales activity. Floor plan and other interest expense fell 26% to $8.2 million from $11.1 million, which management attributed to lower interest-bearing inventory levels. The company reported a net loss of $12.6 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $13.2 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $1 million, down from $2.6 million a year earlier. Inventory Focus Shifts to Mix Optimization Knutson said Titan Machinery’s focus has shifted from absolute inventory reduction to “mix optimization” after two years of work to reduce aged equipment. Total inventory at quarter-end was $914.8 million, up $12 million from year-end, which management said reflected normal seasonality. Knutson said aged equipment inventory continued to decline each month so far this year and called that trend “a critical leading indicator of sustained equipment margin improvement.” He said the company still has work to do in certain used equipment categories and select slower-moving seasonal new equipment categories. The company ended the quarter with approximately $30 million in cash and an adjusted debt-to-tangible-net-worth ratio of 1.6 times, below its bank covenant of 3.5 times. Segment Performance Reflects Mixed Conditions In domestic agriculture, sales were $344.2 million, with same-store sales down 8.2% due to continued softness in equipment demand. Management said results were stronger than expected because some customer deliveries occurred earlier than anticipated. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $6.2 million from $12.8 million a year earlier, reflecting inventory actions and improved equipment margins. Knutson said the environment for growers remains difficult, with commodity prices below break-even levels for many producers and input costs still elevated. He said government support remains an important near-term variable and highlighted year-round E15 adoption, biodiesel and sustainable aviation fuel as policy areas that could help address oversupply in corn and soybeans. Construction segment sales declined 6.5% on a same-store basis to $67.5 million, primarily due to equipment delivery timing. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $0.6 million from $4.2 million. Knutson said infrastructure and data center activity are providing a healthy baseline of demand, while the portion of construction sales tied to farmers is experiencing softness similar to domestic agriculture. In Europe, sales fell to $60.4 million, including a $4.2 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue declined about 40%, mainly due to softer demand in Romania after the prior-year period benefited from European Union subvention program activity. The segment reported a pre-tax loss of $0.9 million, compared with pre-tax income of $4.7 million a year earlier. Knutson said the company completed most of the wind-down of its German operations during the quarter. Australia sales rose 14% to $50.3 million, including a $5.1 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 2.8%, helped by additional revenue from the Belle-Vue Machinery acquisition completed last fall. The segment posted a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million, compared with a $0.6 million loss a year earlier. Knutson said Australian growers are facing elevated diesel fuel and fertilizer costs, but increased rainfall has improved growing conditions across much of the company’s footprint. Full-Year Outlook Reaffirmed Management reaffirmed its fiscal 2027 assumptions despite the modestly better first quarter, saying the demand backdrop remains consistent with its prior outlook. Agriculture revenue is expected to decline 15% to 20%. Construction revenue is expected to be flat to up 5%. Europe revenue is expected to decline 20% to 25%. Australia revenue is expected to increase 10% to 15%. Full-year consolidated equipment margin is expected to be approximately 8.4%, up from 7.3% in fiscal 2026. Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report Knutson said Titan Machinery’s focus has shifted from absolute inventory reduction to “mix optimization” after two years of work to reduce aged equipment. Total inventory at quarter-end was $914.8 million, up $12 million from year-end, which management said reflected normal seasonality. Knutson said aged equipment inventory continued to decline each month so far this year and called that trend “a critical leading indicator of sustained equipment margin improvement.” He said the company still has work to do in certain used equipment categories and select slower-moving seasonal new equipment categories. The company ended the quarter with approximately $30 million in cash and an adjusted debt-to-tangible-net-worth ratio of 1.6 times, below its bank covenant of 3.5 times. Segment Performance Reflects Mixed Conditions In domestic agriculture, sales were $344.2 million, with same-store sales down 8.2% due to continued softness in equipment demand. Management said results were stronger than expected because some customer deliveries occurred earlier than anticipated. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $6.2 million from $12.8 million a year earlier, reflecting inventory actions and improved equipment margins. Knutson said the environment for growers remains difficult, with commodity prices below break-even levels for many producers and input costs still elevated. He said government support remains an important near-term variable and highlighted year-round E15 adoption, biodiesel and sustainable aviation fuel as policy areas that could help address oversupply in corn and soybeans. Construction segment sales declined 6.5% on a same-store basis to $67.5 million, primarily due to equipment delivery timing. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $0.6 million from $4.2 million. Knutson said infrastructure and data center activity are providing a healthy baseline of demand, while the portion of construction sales tied to farmers is experiencing softness similar to domestic agriculture. In Europe, sales fell to $60.4 million, including a $4.2 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue declined about 40%, mainly due to softer demand in Romania after the prior-year period benefited from European Union subvention program activity. The segment reported a pre-tax loss of $0.9 million, compared with pre-tax income of $4.7 million a year earlier. Knutson said the company completed most of the wind-down of its German operations during the quarter. Australia sales rose 14% to $50.3 million, including a $5.1 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 2.8%, helped by additional revenue from the Belle-Vue Machinery acquisition completed last fall. The segment posted a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million, compared with a $0.6 million loss a year earlier. Knutson said Australian growers are facing elevated diesel fuel and fertilizer costs, but increased rainfall has improved growing conditions across much of the company’s footprint. Full-Year Outlook Reaffirmed Management reaffirmed its fiscal 2027 assumptions despite the modestly better first quarter, saying the demand backdrop remains consistent with its prior outlook. Agriculture revenue is expected to decline 15% to 20%. Construction revenue is expected to be flat to up 5%. Europe revenue is expected to decline 20% to 25%. Australia revenue is expected to increase 10% to 15%. Full-year consolidated equipment margin is expected to be approximately 8.4%, up from 7.3% in fiscal 2026. Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report In domestic agriculture, sales were $344.2 million, with same-store sales down 8.2% due to continued softness in equipment demand. Management said results were stronger than expected because some customer deliveries occurred earlier than anticipated. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $6.2 million from $12.8 million a year earlier, reflecting inventory actions and improved equipment margins. Knutson said the environment for growers remains difficult, with commodity prices below break-even levels for many producers and input costs still elevated. He said government support remains an important near-term variable and highlighted year-round E15 adoption, biodiesel and sustainable aviation fuel as policy areas that could help address oversupply in corn and soybeans. Construction segment sales declined 6.5% on a same-store basis to $67.5 million, primarily due to equipment delivery timing. The segment’s pre-tax loss narrowed to $0.6 million from $4.2 million. Knutson said infrastructure and data center activity are providing a healthy baseline of demand, while the portion of construction sales tied to farmers is experiencing softness similar to domestic agriculture. In Europe, sales fell to $60.4 million, including a $4.2 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue declined about 40%, mainly due to softer demand in Romania after the prior-year period benefited from European Union subvention program activity. The segment reported a pre-tax loss of $0.9 million, compared with pre-tax income of $4.7 million a year earlier. Knutson said the company completed most of the wind-down of its German operations during the quarter. Australia sales rose 14% to $50.3 million, including a $5.1 million currency benefit. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 2.8%, helped by additional revenue from the Belle-Vue Machinery acquisition completed last fall. The segment posted a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million, compared with a $0.6 million loss a year earlier. Knutson said Australian growers are facing elevated diesel fuel and fertilizer costs, but increased rainfall has improved growing conditions across much of the company’s footprint. Full-Year Outlook Reaffirmed Management reaffirmed its fiscal 2027 assumptions despite the modestly better first quarter, saying the demand backdrop remains consistent with its prior outlook. Agriculture revenue is expected to decline 15% to 20%. Construction revenue is expected to be flat to up 5%. Europe revenue is expected to decline 20% to 25%. Australia revenue is expected to increase 10% to 15%. Full-year consolidated equipment margin is expected to be approximately 8.4%, up from 7.3% in fiscal 2026. Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report Management reaffirmed its fiscal 2027 assumptions despite the modestly better first quarter, saying the demand backdrop remains consistent with its prior outlook. Agriculture revenue is expected to decline 15% to 20%. Construction revenue is expected to be flat to up 5%. Europe revenue is expected to decline 20% to 25%. Australia revenue is expected to increase 10% to 15%. Full-year consolidated equipment margin is expected to be approximately 8.4%, up from 7.3% in fiscal 2026. Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report Management also reaffirmed expectations for operating expenses of approximately 17% of sales and a roughly 25% year-over-year decline in floor plan interest expense. The company maintained its full-year adjusted EBITDA forecast of $17 million to $29 million and adjusted diluted loss per share guidance of $1.25 to $1.75. Management Sees Stability in Used Equipment Pricing During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report During the question-and-answer session, B. Riley analyst Liam Burke asked about the competitive pricing environment. Knutson said used equipment values have stabilized after roughly 18 months to nearly two years of sequential declines. He said new equipment price increases have also moderated, with manufacturers generally discussing increases in the 1% to 2% range, and in some categories up to 3%. “Ultimately, the pricing has stabilized,” Knutson said, adding that improvement in farm profitability would depend on higher commodity prices and lower input costs. Knutson also said customers are running equipment longer and taking a “fix-as-fail” approach in the current environment. He said that dynamic could support future parts, service and equipment replacement demand as industry conditions improve.About Titan Machinery NASDAQ: TITNTitan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services.This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com.Should You Invest $1,000 in Titan Machinery Right Now?Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this.MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list.While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys.View The Five Stocks Here The 7 Hottest IPOs On Wall Street’s 2026 WatchlistMarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely.Get This Free Report Titan Machinery, Inc is a leading full-service dealer specializing in the sale, rental, and servicing of agricultural and construction equipment. The company represents major brands such as Caterpillar, Case IH and New Holland, offering new and pre-owned tractors, combines, excavators, loaders and other heavy machinery. In addition to equipment sales, Titan provides parts distribution, preventative maintenance and field service support to help customers maximize uptime and productivity. Beyond equipment transactions, Titan Machinery offers a comprehensive suite of support services. This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order to provide readers with the fastest reporting and unbiased coverage. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com. Before you consider Titan Machinery, you'll want to hear this. MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Titan Machinery wasn't on the list. While Titan Machinery currently has a Reduce rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys. View The Five Stocks Here MarketBeat just released its list of the 7 hottest IPOs expected to hit Wall Street in 2026. See which companies are preparing to go public and why investors are watching closely. Sign up for MarketBeat All Access to gain access to MarketBeat's full suite of research tools. Featured By 345 N Reid Place, Suite 620, Sioux Falls, SD 57103 contact@marketbeat.com (844) 978-6257 © MarketBeat Media, LLC 2010-2026. All rights reserved. © 2026 Fair market value prices are updated every minute and are provided by Massive. Other market data provided is at least 10-minutes delayed and hosted by Barchart Solutions. Information is provided 'as-is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice, and is delayed. To see all exchange delays and terms of use please see Barchart's disclaimer. My Account -
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Nutrien Ltd. (NTR) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/nutrien-ltd-ntr-good-stock-145755693.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:57:55Z
Description: Is NTR a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Nutrien Ltd. on X.com by @MoneyShow. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis on N...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Agnico Eagle Mines Limited (AEM) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/agnico-eagle-mines-limited-aem-145640373.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:56:40Z
Description: Is AEM a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Agnico Eagle Mines Limited on X.com by @MoneyShow. In this article, we will summarize the bull...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: MongoDB vs. Datadog: Only 1 Growth Stock Could Make Investors Richer
URL: https://www.barchart.com/story/news/2380490/mongodb-vs-datadog-only-1-growth-stock-could-make-investors-richer
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:33:50Z
Description: One of these software stocks has the stronger path to creating long-term wealth.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Flowserve Corporation (FLS) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/flowserve-corporation-fls-good-stock-143026791.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:30:26Z
Description: Is FLS a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Flowserve Corporation on X.com by @MoneyShow. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is IperionX Limited (IPX) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/iperionx-limited-ipx-good-stock-143008294.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:30:08Z
Description: Is IPX a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on IperionX Limited on X.com by @MoneyShow. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is The J. M. Smucker Company (SJM) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/j-m-smucker-company-sjm-142856153.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:28:56Z
Description: Is SJM a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on The J. M. Smucker Company on Quality At A Fair Price’s Substack. In this article, we will...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Interparfums, Inc. (IPAR) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/interparfums-inc-ipar-good-stock-142843479.html
Time Published: 2026-06-09T14:28:43Z
Description: Is IPAR a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Interparfums, Inc. on Quality At A Fair Price’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Sensex today | Stock Market Highlights: Sensex gains 395 pts, Nifty rises to 23,242; Indigo, SBI top gainers
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/sensex-nifty50-today-stock-market-highlights-9th-june-2026/article71076430.ece
Time Published: 2026-06-09T10:30:31Z
Full Content:
+ 64.42 -27.15 + 267.00 -4,463.00 -2,667.00 + 64.42 -27.15 -27.15 + 267.00 + 267.00 -4,463.00 Sensex Today, Nifty 50 | Stock Market Highlights - Find here all the highlights related to Sensex, Nifty, BSE, NSE, share prices and Indian stock markets for 9 June 2026 The benchmark Nifty 50 rose 0.52% to 23,242.10, and the BSE Sensex gained 0.54% to 73,918.76. The Reserve Bank of India ‌on Monday allowed banks to raise overseas foreign-currency borrowings of at least three years at concessional ‌swap rates, aiming to boost dollar inflows ‌with ⁠the rupee under pressure from higher oil prices, ⁠foreign outflows and geopolitical risks. Banks and financials rose about 2.1% and 1.4%, respectively, while state-owned lenders climbed 3.6% and private banks gained 1.6%. Fifteen of the 16 major sectors advanced. The small-caps and mid-caps rose 1.7% and 1.4%, respectively. Brent crude futures fell 2% to $92.4 per barrel. Among stocks, ‌IndiGo airline operator InterGlobe Aviation gained 4.1% after several brokerages reiterated a positive medium-term view on the airline following its analyst day, despite near-term pressures from high ⁠fuel prices The rupee closed at 95.35 per dollar, up 0.4% from its close in the previous session. Sensex settled 394.50 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 73,918.76, and Nifty 50 rose 119.10 points or 0.52 per cent to 23,242.10. Hexagon Nutrition's IPO sees 42x subscription on Day 3, driven by strong demand from non-institutional investors. Gold futures rise near Rs 1.55 lakh as crude oil prices fall, while inflation concerns and interest rate worries keep gains limited. Aluminium futures stabilize near ₹385 support, with potential to rally towards ₹400 while maintaining a positive outlook. L&T is expanding automation, robotics and digital solutions to transform construction, reduce labour dependence and tackle manpower challenges. Exploring the potential impact of SpaceX, Anthropic, and OpenAI on megacap IPOs and investor strategies in a volatile market. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have invested ₹8,794.743 crore in government securities under the Fully Accessible Route (FAR) after the government exempted them from income tax on interest income and capital gains arising from investments in these bonds. CARYSIL informed that Carysil Brassware Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carysil UK Limited and a wholly owned step-down subsidiary of the Company, in the United Kingdom, has been dissolved as per the applicable provisions of the UK Companies Act, 2006 with effect from June 09, 2026 JSW Infrastructure has received Letter of Award (“LOA”) for Integrated Development of Outer Container Terminal & Berth no. 1 through 5 at Netaji Subhash Dock (“NSD”), Kolkata Dock System issued by Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Authority, Kolkata (“SMPA”) on Design Build Finance Operate Transfer (“DBFOT”) basis through PPP mode. Shares surged 3.5% to Rs 277.90 on the NSE. Chairman Rajesh Mehta says there was “zero diversion of funds” and the company is ready to clarify the transactions. 📈 Sensex: 73,834.89 ▲ 310.63 pts (+0.42%) 📈 Nifty 50: 23,215.30 ▲ 92.30 pts (+0.40%) Grasim Industries Limited, the flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group and a global leader in cellulosic fibres, today announced an investment of ₹3,094 crore, for Phase II Lyocell capacity of 110K TPA at Harihar, Karnataka. This expansion will consist of 2 lines of 55K TPA (150 Tons per day) each. The first line is expected to be commissioned by 2028, and the second line is expected to be commissioned by 2030. India’s drop in global market-cap rankings reflects AI-driven capital flows rather than weaker fundamentals, says Bajaj Finserv AMC. With a diversified economy, broader earnings base, and lower concentration risk than Taiwan and South Korea, India remains a compelling long-term investment opportunity driven by domestic growth. Revised savings structure targets higher balances and stable, granular deposit growth among India’s fastest‑growing aspirational wealth cohort The Bank offers competitive interest rates across slabs, peaking at a top rate of 7.00% p.a. for high-value savings deposits of more than ₹25 Crores to ₹50 Crores HDFC Mutual Fund, today launched the Naari Nivesh Yatra, a first-of-its-kind nationwide investor education and awareness initiative designed to encourage women to take charge of their financial future through informed investing and long-term financial planning KNR Constructions is in receipt of Letter of Acceptance from Malkajgiri Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad, for Construction of 6 lane bi directional flyover crossing TKR College junction, Gayatri Nagar Junction and Mandamallamma Junction under Engineering Procurement Construction (EPC)/ Turnkey Basis in the state of Telangana worth Rs. 235 crore. The construction period for the said project is 24 months Shares traded 4.5% positive at Rs 263.75 on the NSE Bernstein warns of potential SIP inflow risks if Indian markets fail to deliver significant returns in the coming year. 📈 Sensex: 73,751.82 ▲ 227.56 pts (+0.31%) 📈 Nifty 50: 23,201.95 ▲ 78.95 pts (+0.34%) Adani Energy Solutions signed the securities purchase and subscription agreement (“SPSA”) with National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (“NIIF”), Energy Efficiency Services Ltd and Intellismart Infrastructure Private Limited for acquiring 100 per cent of the equity share capital of Intellismart and redemption of the optionally convertible debentures of Intellismart held by NIIF. Adani Energy shares traded flat at ₹1,574.20 on the NSE. The Ministry of Coal has notified the Coal Exchange Rules, 2026, paving the way for the establishment of Coal Exchanges in the country as part of efforts to modernise India's coal supply chain and create a more transparent and efficient coal market. Sensex and Nifty rise at noon, boosted by bank stocks following RBI's forex swap announcement and positive global cues. SBM Bank (India) Ltd. is sharpening its retail banking strategy to better serve India’s rapidly growing emerging affluent segment. Recognising that aspirational savers want their money to work harder without sacrificing liquidity, the bank’s optimised savings account structure is designed to maximise wealth creation. Under this approach, SBM Bank India has made strategic enhancements to its slab rates, delivering competitive interest rates to help customers grow their balances faster: 5.50 per cent p.a. for savings balances more than ₹5 Lakhs to ₹10 Lakhs 6.00 per cent p.a. for savings balances more than ₹10 Lakhs to ₹50 Lakhs Swara Baby Products, a contract manufacturer of baby diapers, adult diapers and feminine hygiene products backed by FirstCry, is planning to file draft papers with Sebi this month to raise funds up to Rs 1,000 crore through an Initial Public Offering (IPO), people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources Ltd. is set to refinance $5.2 billion of US dollar bonds and loans, according to people familiar with the matter, as it seeks to lower borrowing costs by replacing expensive debt after securing credit-rating upgrades. Defence stocks surge on strong investor optimism, with Paras Defence and Zen Technologies rising 3-7% as Nifty Defence index gains. Kalpataru Projects International has informed the exchanges about the appointment of Mr Gautam Mehra as an additional director designated as an independent director for a period of five consecutive years with effect from 9 June 2026, subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing AGM. Varvee Global has received a purchase order for supply of approximately 9 lakh meters of suiting fabrics aggregating to an order value of approximately ₹12.08 crore. Shares traded flat at ₹69.39 on the NSE. Private sector lender HDFC Bank has increased the Marginal Cost of funds-based Lending Rate (MCLR) by up to 10 basis points across tenors effective June 8, 2026. Fino Payments Bank opened 2.94 lakh new accounts in May 2026, up 29 per cent year-on-year, while average deposits rose 10 per cent year-on-year to ₹2,762 crore. Shares rallied 8 per cent to ₹137.68 on the NSE. ​Zepto founders received ED summons under FEMA, says updated IPO documentZepto founders received ED summons for information related to foreign investments and financials, as disclosed in their IPO document.​ Zepto founders received ED summons for information related to foreign investments and financials, as disclosed in their IPO document. ​Keeping close watch on MSME loan book as prolonged West Asia crisis may impact cashflows: Punjab & Sind Bank MDPunjab & Sind Bank monitors MSME loans amid West Asia crisis, posts record profit, and plans substantial business growth by FY29.​ Punjab & Sind Bank monitors MSME loans amid West Asia crisis, posts record profit, and plans substantial business growth by FY29. The Reserve Bank of India will offer state-run firms a concessional foreign exchange swap facility, allowing them to hedge overseas borrowings at roughly half of the prevailing market costs, according to some analysts. Faalcon Concepts has received a new work order from Sanskriti University for the site at Building Campus-1, Sanskriti University, Chhata Kosi, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh – 281401, India, with an order value of ₹3 crore. Public issue is scheduled to open on the 29th of June, 2026 It will support the expansion of Foundational Literacy and Numeracy (FLN) initiatives in government schools in Ranchi, Jharkhand. The initiative will scale DEVI Sansthan’s proven FLN programmes through Accelerated learning methodologies, Teacher capacity-building programmes, Robust assessment frameworks & School-based interventions The initiative seeks to strengthen learning outcomes for children across government schools in the district. DEVI Sansthan (Dignity Education Vision International), a 33 year old not-for-profit organisation working in the field of Foundational Literacy and Numeracy (FLN), is set to be listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Social Stock Exchange (SSE) and the public issue is scheduled to open on the 29th of June, 2026. The development marks a significant step in expanding the organisation’s mission of improving learning outcomes through transparent and impact-aligned funding. The SSE listing will support DEVI Sansthan in scaling its literacy and numeracy interventions across schools, underserved communities, and learning ecosystems in Ranchi district. Through its innovative ALfA (Accelerating Learning for All) methodology, the organisation focuses on enabling school students to acquire foundational reading, writing, and arithmetic skills through accelerated, peer-learning-based models. Founded in 1992 by noted educationist Dr. Sunita Gandhi, DEVI Sansthan has been actively working with governments, educators, schools, and social-impact ecosystems to implement FLN-focused programmes, teacher training initiatives, learning assessments, and community learning models designed to improve educational accessibility and learning efficiency. The organisation’s work spans across foundational learning interventions, educator capacity-building programmes, learning outcome assessments, and large-scale literacy campaigns aimed at helping children, youth, and adults overcome learning gaps in a significantly shorter time frame. Dr Sunita Gandhi, Former World Bank economist is the founder of DEVI Sansthan. She is also the Chief Academic Advisor of City Montessori School, the World’s largest school. DEVI Sansthan continues to collaborate with public and private stakeholders to strengthen foundational education systems and create sustainable learning models at scale. Dr Sunita Gandhi, Founder &CEO , DEVI Sansthan added “For decades, we have seen millions of children move through education systems without acquiring basic reading and arithmetic skills. At DEVI Sansthan, our focus has always been on creating simple, scalable, and evidence-based learning models that can help every child learn effectively and with dignity. The Social Stock Exchange listing is an important step towards strengthening transparency, expanding collaborations, and taking foundational learning interventions to communities that need them the most.” Speaking about the development, Nixon Joseph - Group Executive Director of DEVI Sansthan & Former President of SBI Foundation, said: “Foundational Literacy and Numeracy is one of the most critical challenges within the education ecosystem today. At DEVI Sansthan, we have consistently focused on building scalable and evidence-based learning models that can create measurable social impact. The Social Stock Exchange listing reflects our commitment towards transparency, accountability, and long-term impact. It will help us strengthen our outreach, deepen collaborations, and expand access to quality foundational learning for underserved communities across geographies.” Funds mobilised through the SSE will support foundational literacy and numeracy programmes, teacher training initiatives, learning assessments, accelerated learning interventions, and school based education models aimed at improving learning outcomes at scale. SpiceJet faces pilot pay delays amid financial struggles, seeking a government-backed loan to stabilize operations. Shares of NLC India fell 4.6 per cent in early trade on Tuesday after the government announced an offer-for-sale (OFS) to divest up to a 3 per cent stake in the company at a discount to the prevailing market price. Grasim Industries Ltd, the flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group and a global leader in cellulosic fibres, has announced an investment of ₹3,094 crore for Phase II Lyocell capacity of 110K TPA at Harihar, Karnataka. This expansion will consist of two lines of 55K TPA (150 tons per day) each. The first line is expected to be commissioned by 2028 and the second by 2030. Nifty 50 shows mixed signals; potential fall to 23,050 if it fails to sustain above 23,320. The government's offer for sale of up to 3 per cent stake in NLC India got off to a smooth start on Tuesday, with strong participation from non-retail investors. Adani Enterprises shares traded flat at ₹2,962 on the NSE after its step-down subsidiary acquired a 100 per cent stake in Portus Ventures to undertake new real estate activities. Marsons has received an order for repairing, inspection and testing of 50MVA, 132/33 KV power transformers, including to and fro transportation, worth ₹9.48 crore from West Bengal State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd. Shares of Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel turned flat in trade on Tuesday after rising in early deals following the Bombay High Court’s decision to set aside the Centre’s retrospective levy of one-time spectrum charges on telecom operators for spectrum held beyond 6.2 MHz between 2008 and 2012. Rupee gains 20 paise to 95.41 against the US dollar as geopolitical tensions ease and oil prices decline. The offering comprising a fresh issue of shares worth ₹8,010 crore and an offer-for-sale (OFS) by existing investors. Company is set ‌to raise ₹3,000 crore through a sale of five-year bonds, while Tata Projects, a real estate firm, could raise ₹500 crore to to ₹1,000 crore through a combination of three-year and five-year papers. - Indian bank shares surge as RBI announces forex swap facility for overseas borrowings with a minimum three-year maturity. Zepto files updated IPO papers with SEBI for ₹8,010 crore to expand its dark store network in India. Kellton shares rose 2% on the NSE to Rs 15.57; Oil India shares were down 1% to Rs 474.65. Vishal Mega Mart has informed the exchanges about the appointment of Anurag Krishna as Vice President & Head - Internal Audit and Senior Management Personnel of the company with effect from 9 June 2026. UBS downgrades telecom stocks on cautious outlook UBS downgraded Indus Towers to Sell with a target price of ₹395 and Bharti Airtel to Sell with a target of ₹1,800, while maintaining Neutral on Vodafone Idea with a target of ₹15. The brokerage maintained a cautious view on the sector amid difficult macro conditions and rising inflationary pressures. It believes consensus expectations of a mobile tariff hike in FY27 are at risk, with sector revenue growth slowing to around 8 per cent YoY in Q4FY26. HSBC initiates coverage on IDFC First Bank HSBC initiated coverage on IDFC First Bank with a Buy rating and target price of ₹90. IDFC First Bank is a play on multi-year high loan growth and operating leverage across business segments. Execution has been strong recently, with the brokerage seeing 35 per cent core PPOP CAGR in FY26-29e and ROA/ROE expansion. The bank is positioned to grow its loans by around 20 per cent CAGR over FY26-29e. HSBC initiates Buy on Belrise Industries HSBC initiated coverage on Belrise with a Buy rating and target price of ₹270. Belrise is moving into more advanced fabrication to cater to rising passenger and commercial vehicle needs. This strategy is supported by various recent acquisitions, and it is also diversifying into defence and aerospace segments. Simplification of its group structure should further enhance shareholder value. Brokerages mixed on IndiGo after analyst day Goldman Sachs maintained Buy on InterGlobe Aviation (IndiGo) with a target price of ₹5,300. JPMorgan kept Neutral with a target of ₹4,610, while Jefferies maintained Buy at ₹5,380 and Morgan Stanley kept Overweight with a target of ₹5,844. HSBC maintained Buy with a target of ₹5,545. Key highlights include single-digit capacity growth in FY27, international mix target of 40 per cent by FY30, and focus on yields amid cost pressures. Jefferies on RBI’s FCNR-B and ECB measures Jefferies noted that terms on FCNR-B and ECB raising are supportive. These measures can drive larger inflows of $50-70 billion versus $34 billion in 2013, with leverage being a key attraction. Citi revises BoP forecast after RBI measures Citi now expects a BoP surplus of $5 billion in FY27 after incorporating $10 billion from the OFCB route. It expects USDINR to move towards 93 in the short run. Relative beneficiary among equity financials is HDFC Bank, while government-owned NBFCs such as PFC, REC and IRFC gain direct hedging relief. HSBC maintains Hold on Nestle India HSBC maintained Hold on Nestle India with a target price of ₹1,450. The MPN segment clocked only 1 per cent YoY revenue growth in FY26, even as other segments delivered a robust year. Strong portfolio, but growth upgrades look difficult and valuations are steep. HSBC holds Tata Motors PV with ₹450 target HSBC maintained Hold on Tata Motors PV with a target price of ₹450. Multiple headwinds in FY26 saw JLR’s net debt position fall back to FY23 levels. It increased JLR margin estimates as it expects lower warranty costs in FY27 and onwards. Jefferies positive on renewable energy demand Jefferies reiterated Buy on Emmvee with a target of ₹360 and on Premier with a target of ₹1,135. Power demand rose double digits YoY in May, driven by cooling demand. Harsh summer, weak monsoon forecast and high probability of El Niño should sustain demand growth, supporting a pickup in renewable energy tendering in 2HFY27. Jefferies maintains Hold on Infosys Jefferies maintained Hold on Infosys with a target price of ₹1,235. It outlined the company’s strategy to evolve from tech implementer to a value orchestrator, with sharp rise in R&D spend reflecting focus on building AI capabilities. Jefferies on utilities sector outlook Jefferies noted demand improving with execution ramp-up to follow. Power demand in April-May 2026 has been strong at 7 per cent YoY. Top picks are JSW Energy, Adani Energy Solutions and NTPC. It raised targets for Adani Green Energy to ₹1,735, Adani Energy Solutions to ₹1,905 and JSW Energy to ₹745. Jefferies upbeat on aerospace and defence Jefferies highlighted FY26 order flow rose 9 per cent YoY for the coverage universe. It believes power equipment and defence remain the best way to play the sector. Top picks: Siemens Energy, Hitachi Energy, HAL, BEL, KEI and L&T. Jefferies on electricals sector Jefferies noted that a below-normal monsoon forecast for 2026 can benefit air conditioner companies. It estimated FY27 UCP sales of Voltas and Blue Star to grow by 15-16 per cent YoY. MOSL initiates Buy on Gabriel India MOSL initiated coverage on Gabriel India with a Buy rating and target price of ₹1,266. The company is transforming into a scalable mobility platform with a significantly larger growth runway. It estimated revenue/EBITDA/PAT CAGR of 22 per cent/23 per cent/55 per cent for FY26-FY28E. Brokerages highlight EMS growth potential JP Morgan noted exports outpaced domestic in FY26 for EMS companies, which could be the next frontier of growth. Dixon Tech remains its top pick. Bernstein survey on Indian capital markets Bernstein’s survey indicated markets are on the clock with domestic flows potentially weakening. Many investors plan to maintain or reassess SIPs, with flows for asset managers with higher reliance on direct-plan investors likely to be more volatile. Nomura maintains positive stance on steel Nomura maintained positive stance on the Indian steel sector. Domestic HRC prices moderated while rebar prices declined sharply. India remained a net importer in May 2026. Nomura on Indian pharma April sales Nomura’s April-IQVIA data showed ex gRevlimid, three-month sales for April 2026 rose the most for Zydus and declined the most for Lupin. Nomura maintains Buy on Motherson Sumi Wiring Nomura maintained Buy on Motherson Sumi Wiring with a target price of ₹50. Outlook remains healthy based on OEM production schedules. UBS on apparel exporters amid Middle East conflict UBS noted no demand shock for Indian apparel suppliers despite the Middle East conflict, with stable relationships and recovering utilisation. Sharp increase in raw material costs is creating margin pressure that suppliers are trying to pass on partially. Elara initiates Buy on Bharti Airtel Elara initiated Buy on Bharti Airtel with a target of ₹2,387, Buy on Bharti Hexacom at ₹1,756 and Accumulate on Indus Towers at ₹491. The sector is in multi-year recovery with expected ARPU CAGR accelerating to 7 per cent during FY26-29E. Kotak maintains Buy on SBI Kotak Institutional Equities maintained Buy on SBI with a fair value of ₹1,250. The brokerage highlighted steady execution with resilient RoE despite NIM pressures. Citi maintains Neutral on Cognizant Citi maintained Neutral on Cognizant with a target price of $55. Management highlighted growing TAM related to AI-based demand for enterprises. Citi India equity strategy highlights key sectors Citi reinforced its thesis on stocks including Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, M&M, Angel One, CG Power, Polycab, HUL, Torrent Pharma, GAIL and JSW Cement. Key overweight: financials, healthcare, defence and utilities. Key underweight: IT services, staples and metals. Nifty Dec’26 target is 27,000. Axis Capital on equity supply trends Axis Capital noted May equity supply landed at ₹344 billion. Equity supply is likely to remain weak in the near term with no major IPO planned for June. Jefferies on emerging markets positioning Jefferies observed EM returns have never been more concentrated. It still finds AI earnings robust but noted momentum as a style could be subdued. Indian markets rise with Nifty up 0.46%, driven by banks amid easing tensions between Israel and Iran. Crude oil futures drop as Iran and Israel agree to cease attacks, impacting market prices amid ongoing peace negotiations. Hindustan Copper Ltd on Monday said Anupam Misra will take charge as the company’s Chairman & Managing Director on 1 July 2026. Shares rose 2 per cent to ₹515.45 on the NSE. Panacea Biotec shares zoomed 9 per cent to ₹604.80 on the NSE after joining the DENSTAR consortium to advance licensure of its single-dose tetravalent dengue vaccine, DengiAll, in sub-Saharan Africa. JSW Energy shares were up 1 per cent on the NSE to ₹577.10 after it commissioned its wind blade manufacturing plant at Halol. Avantel shares rose over 4 per cent to ₹167.58 on the NSE after securing a contract worth ₹9.94 crore (including taxes) from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the development and testing of satellite terminals for GSAT. JNK India shares rallied 12 per cent to ₹467.45 on the NSE after it informed exchanges about a significant international contract win from UAE’s CC7 Emirates Engineering Solutions. JSW Steel reported consolidated crude steel production of 22.93 lakh tonnes for May 2026. Shares traded flat at ₹1,262.40 on the NSE Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) shares were flat at ₹2,153.30 on the NSE following the launch of a Global Value & Innovation Centres (GVIC) Business Unit that will help enterprises establish AI-native GCCs while assisting existing GCCs to move towards a value- and innovation-led operating model. Tata Steel and Tata Projects plan to raise ₹3,000 crore and ₹500-₹1,000 crore through bond sales after a year-long hiatus. Top gainers: Trent (+2.60%), IndiGo (+1.80%), Grasim Industries (+1.56%), Eternal (+1.35%), Jio Financial (+1.27%). Top losers: Infosys (-0.59%), Sun Pharma (-0.42%), Tata Steel (-0.52%), NTPC (-0.54%), Hindalco (-0.56%). Positive Wall Street cues, fall in crude prices may help stocks recover some ground on Dalal Street. Participants may watch for some stability in newsflows from Middle East and hope for a resolution in ongoing war in gulf. Focus on stock specific action to remain relevant in voltile markets. Likely 70-80 point downtick on opening quotes of Nifty. Weekly expiry too! Focus on Pharma space for long trades. Crude oil futures traded lower on Tuesday morning after Iran and Israel agreed to stop attacks on each other. At 9:13 am on Tuesday, August Brent oil futures were at $93.27, down 1.06 per cent, and July crude oil futures on WTI (West Texas Intermediate) were at $90.06, down 1.36 per cent. June crude oil futures were trading at ₹8,625 on the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) during the initial hour of trading on Tuesday against the previous close of ₹8,707, down 0.94 per cent, while July futures were trading at ₹8,490 against the previous close of ₹8,566, down 0.89 per cent. GMR Power and Urban Infra, along with Shree Naman Developers Private Ltd, has entered into a share purchase agreement with Adani Airport City Ltd for the sale of its entire 26 per cent stake in Portus Ventures Private Ltd. PVPL is a joint venture company formed for land development activities within the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The project is in the pre-planning phase and has recently entered the construction phase. MCX August Gold futures witnessed a highly volatile session, hitting an intraday low of 152,712 before recovering to settle at 154,784. Despite the sharp decline, prices managed to close above the crucial 55-day EMA, indicating that buyers are still defending key support levels. The recent low near 152,700–153,000 now becomes an important support zone, and as long as prices hold above this region, buying on dips may continue to emerge. On the upside, immediate resistance is placed near 156,500, followed by a stronger hurdle around 158,500. A sustained move above these levels could improve near-term sentiment and trigger a broader recovery. However, International Gold prices held steady near an 11-week low as markets assessed the halt in hostilities between Iran and Israel, which reduced safe-haven demand for bullion. Investors remained cautious ahead of the upcoming U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) data, which is expected to provide fresh clues on the Federal Reserve’s interest-rate outlook. A firm U.S. dollar and easing geopolitical tensions continued to limit upside momentum in international gold prices. India's economy faces rising inflation and government finance pressures amid escalating costs from the Iran war and oil supply disruptions. Va Tech Wabag (Wabag), a leading pure-play multinational water technology group, has secured the design and build contract for the proposed Ajman Sewage Biorefinery Plant – Phase 3 in the United Arab Emirates from Ajman Sewerage (Private) Company Ltd. The project will be executed through a consortium arrangement, with Wabag serving as the consortium leader. The project, scheduled to be executed over a 24-month period, includes the design, engineering, procurement, and construction of a 60 MLD sewage treatment plant, along with inlet works, primary and secondary treatment systems, and comprehensive sludge management facilities comprising digesters, gas holders, scrubbers, and power generation systems. “Bitcoin’s move back above the $63,000-$64,000 range signals renewed confidence in the digital asset market and reflects improving sentiment across the broader crypto ecosystem. The asset’s ability to reclaim key price levels after a period of volatility indicates that investors continue to view Bitcoin as a long-term store of value and portfolio diversification tool. Growing participation from both retail and institutional investors, coupled with increasing awareness around digital assets, is helping strengthen the foundation for the next phase of market growth. As adoption expands globally, the market is becoming increasingly driven by conviction and utility rather than short-term speculation. For investors, the current environment highlights the importance of maintaining a disciplined and long-term approach. While price movements can attract attention, successful investing in digital assets is often built on consistency, diversification, and a clear investment horizon. Investors should focus on fundamentally strong assets, stagger allocations through market cycles, and avoid making decisions based solely on short-term momentum. As the digital asset ecosystem continues to mature, those who remain focused on long-term trends and broader adoption are likely to be better positioned to capitalize on emerging opportunities.” Avantel (AVTS): Gets order from DRDO worth INR99.4m Avenue Supermarts (DMART): Invests about INR1.5b in subsidiary Aye Finance (AYE): Approves raising bonds of up to INR equivalent of $15m Dev Accelerator (DEVX): Buys 2 Bengaluru office assets with Prestige group Dynacons Systems (DYCS): Gets INR1.26b of 5-Year contract from Central Bank of India Fineotex Chemical (FTXC): Expands capacity by 150m pounds/year at Texas Grasim Industries (GRASIM): Board Approves Capital Expenditure of 30.94B Rupees HCL Technologies (HCLT): Introduces AI innovation zone with Google Cloud InterGlobe Aviation (indigo): Sees Single-Digit Capacity Growth, XLR deliveries in FY27 IRB Infrastructure (IRB): May toll revenue INR8.43b, up 25% Y/y JSW Energy (JSW): Commissions Halol wind blad manufacturing plant JNK India (JNKINDIA): Gets large order of between INR1b-3B Rail Vikas Nigam (RVNL): Gets INR2.21b order from South East Central Railway Reliance Industries (RELIANCE): Gives details related party transactions with units & joint venture Sumeet Industries (SUMEETIN): Approves rights issue of INR1.99b at INR11.86/share Tata Consultancy (tcs): Wins Multimillion-Euro Deal From Canada Life Tata Motors (TMCV): Chery Says It Has No Technology Transfer Arrangements in India DYK: FIFA World Cup trophy value surges since 1974 The solid-gold FIFA World Cup trophy is valued at about $747,000 and its value has increased roughly 3,000 per cent since 1974. Global newsflow: Iran, Israel pledge to end attacks Iran and Israel have pledged to end attacks that threatened talks. Asian stocks rebounded on Iran optimism and the AI trade. SpaceX IPO is said to be well oversubscribed with orders closing on Wednesday, according to Bloomberg. Canada is planning to propose a ban on social media for children under 16. Interesting factoid: North Korea’s surprising economic success The world’s most surprising economic success story is North Korea. A WSJ article says that arms sales to Russia and goods from China provide a boost despite sanctions, with the regime wealthier than ever. Japan rejects China’s ‘new militarism’ accusation Japan has rejected China’s accusation that it is pursuing “new militarism,” with Tokyo’s defence chief calling it hypocritical. “Isn’t it strange that China, who has a huge arsenal of nuclear weapons and strategic bombers calls out Japan, who has neither of such weapons, for so-called ‘new militarism,’” Defence Minister Shinjiro Koizumi said in a speech at the Shangri-La defence forum in Singapore. His speech provided a rare moment of direct criticism of China at the conference. Post-Iran war outlook: Energy markets face prolonged volatility Among all the impacts of the Iran war’s shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz, perhaps the most significant is the worldwide scramble for secure supplies of energy. Even after the conflict ends, a prolonged adjustment period looms as countries rebuild stockpiles and West Asian producers restore output. This is expected to keep oil prices volatile and likely elevated in the $70s–$80s range for years. The crisis marks a defining moment for world energy markets, accelerating a shift toward greater energy security, diversified sources, increased investment and faster electrification, further amplified by surging electricity demand from AI data centres. Stocks where the thesis is reinforced include Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, M&M, Angel One, CG Power, Polycab, HUL, Torrent Pharma, GAIL and JSW Cement. Key underweight sectors are IT services, staples and metals. Citi’s Nifty Dec’26 target is 27,000 (19x one-year forward PE). Geopolitical uncertainty is now becoming a permanent operating condition. Visible areas of long-term growth opportunities include data centres, MSME finance, healthcare and middle-income consumption. India needs to drive R&D spends higher as an economy to unlock higher growth and productivity potential. Dynacons: Company bags Rs. 125.88 Cr AI & private cloud project from Central Bank Of India, for expansion of the bank’s Private Cloud infrastructure. (Positive) HCLTech: Company has launched an AI Innovation Zone in Santa Clara, California, in collaboration with Google Cloud. (Positive) IRB Infrastructure: Company reports 25% YoY jump in May toll revenue to Rs. 843 crore. (Positive) JNK India: Company secures large order from UAE’s CC7 emirates engineering solutions; order worth between Rs. 100-300 Cr (Positive) SML Mahindra - CV Sales at 1,678 units vs 1,503 units; up 11.6% YoY, CV exports at 89 units vs 40 units YoY (Positive) Royal Orchid Hotels: Company launches new property “Z by Regenta city centre” in Ahmedabad; designed for gen z and millennial travelers. (Positive) Avantel Limited: Company bags an order worth Rs. 9.94 crore from Defence Research and Development Organisation for manufacturing and related services. (Positive)\u0009 JSW Energy: Company commissions its wind blade manufacturing plant at Halol, Gujarat (Positive) Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd: Company secures Rs. 221.33 Cr order from South East Central Railway. (Positive) Shanti Gold International Limited: Company has successfully commenced commercial production at its new manufacturing facility located in Marol, Andheri, Mumbai. (Positive) Lemon Tree: Company expands in Jaipur with New 88-Room Keys Prima Property (Positive) TCS: Company has launched a specialized business unit to help global enterprises build and scale Global Capability Centres (GCCs). (Positive) Bharti Airtel/ Vodafone Idea: Bombay High Court gives Rs 20,000 crore relief. This was regarding one time spectrum charges matter. (Positive) Cera Sanitaryware: Goldman Sachs India Equity Portfolio bought 1.18 lk shares. (Positive) Rushil Décor: Company expands capacity with new Gujarat Laminate Unit. (Positive) Panacea Biotec: Company has launched the “DENSTAR” project aimed at developing a dengue vaccine specifically for Africa. (Positive) Hindustan Copper Ltd: Company has received an order from the Ministry of Mines, Government of India, appointing Shri Anupam Misra as Chairman & Managing Director (CMD) (Neutral) \u0009\u0009 Simplex Castings Ltd: Company is advancing its green energy transition by signing a 25-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Natraj Energy, a Raipur-based firm (Neutral) Grasim Industries: Company has approved a capex of ₹3,094 Cr to expand Lyocell capacity by 110K TPA at Harihar, Karnataka. (Neutral) Oswal Pumps: Company has announced the successful completion of its acquisition of an additional 13,07,000 Equity Shares in Walso Solar Solution Private Limited (Neutral) Allcargo Terminals: Company has announced the resignation of Mr. Vaishnavkiran Shetty from his position as Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director (Neutral) NIBE Ltd: Company has allotted 3,20,000 equity shares of face value ₹10 each at ₹1258 per share to Eminence Global Fund PCC – Eubilia Capital Partners Fund I (Neutral) Adani Ent: Adani Airport City Ltd acquires 100% of Portus Ventures – a Gujarat-based real estate & hospitality firm. (Neutral) ABFRL: Subsidiary increased stake in Bewakoof by 10.02%, now holding 99.03% equity. (Neutral) Electronics Mart: New multi-brand store Bajaj Electronics now operational in Karimnagar, Telangana. (Neutral) Euro Panel: Approval granted parent company to establish a subsidiary in India. (Neutral) Deepak Builders: Company has fixed June 19, 2026 as the record date for its equity shareholders for sub-division of equity shares of face value ₹10 each into 10 equity shares of face value ₹1 each. (Neutral) Amber Enterprises: NCLT approves amalgamation of wholly owned subsidiary AmberPR Technoplast into Company (Neutral) Titan: Company has redeemed Commercial Papers worth Rs 1,000 crore. (Neutral) HDB Financial: Board is scheduled to meet on June 11 to consider various fundraising options. (Neutral) Brigade: Company set June 17 as the record date to determine shareholder eligibility for a 1:3 bonus issue of equity shares. (Neutral) Ather Energy: Board will meet on June 12 to consider a potential fundraise via the issuance of bonds. (Neutral) Ratnaveer Precision: Board will meet on June 11 to consider a potential fundraise. (Neutral) Financial stocks: RBI is allowing banks to issue Standby Letter of Credit ( to overseas banks- to lend to NRIs against the FCNR(B) deposit itself as collateral (Neutral) NLC India: Promoter has announced OFS of Rs 1260 cr at a floor price of Rs 303/sh, a discount of 9.75%. (Negative) •⁠ ⁠🏛️ US District Judge ruled the $100,000 H-1B visa fee imposed by the Trump administration is unlawful •⁠ ⁠❌ Court ordered the fee to be invalidated following a lawsuit by 20 Democratic state attorneys general •⁠ ⁠💰 The fee had significantly increased the cost of obtaining new H-1B visas and expedited processing •⁠ ⁠👨‍💻 H-1B remains one of the most sought-after visas for skilled foreign professionals •⁠ ⁠🇮🇳 Indian IT companies are among the largest users of the H-1B visa program 🟢 Impact: Positive for Indian IT companies (TCS, Infosys, HCLTech, Wipro, Tech Mahindra, LTIMindtree) as it reduces visa-related costs and improves workforce mobility. Defence and power standout on capex visibility Believe Power equipment and defence remain the best way to play the sector Top picks- Siemens Energy, Hitachi, HAL, BEL, KEI, and L&T FY26 order flow rose 9% YoY for the coverage universe, led by L&T and BEL. Panacea Biotec’s dengue vaccine project A new four-year international project called DENSTAR has launched to test, get approval for, and distribute a dengue vaccine named DengiAll in sub-Saharan Africa and worldwide. Developed by Panacea Biotec, it is a single-dose, cost-effective shot that does not require prior blood testing. NLC India OFS details The government is conducting an offer for sale in NLC India Ltd of ₹1,260 crore at a floor price of ₹303 per share, a discount of 9.75 per cent. Vodafone Idea, Airtel gain from HC order The Bombay High Court has set aside the DoT’s demand on one-time spectrum charge, removing a ₹20,000 crore regulatory overhang for the sector. This improves liquidity, borrowing capacity, the probability of successful network investments, fundraising and subscriber retention for Vodafone Idea. Other updates Aequs has a six-month lock-in on 146 million shares valued at $298 million, or 22 per cent of total outstanding shares. Nomura’s April-IQVIA data shows ex gRevlimid, three-month sales for April 2026 rose most for Zydus and declined most for Lupin. Jefferies reiterated buy on Emmvee (target ₹360) and Premier (target ₹1,135) amid strong power demand. HSBC maintained buy on Belrise with a target of ₹270. AI’s Glass House: Faultlines Threatening the Rally: The recent global sovereign bond sell-off, driven by renewed inflation risks from energy shocks and disrupted supply chains, has clouded the outlook of asset markets. US yields remain elevated, roughly 50bp above pre-war levels (two-year up ~60bp as on end-May 2026), even as AI rallies on new product launches, booming demand for high-bandwidth memory and infrastructure hardwares. *We identify key fault lines in the AI expansion — escalating input cost, heavier debt-funded capex in a scenario of rising interest rate, and growing energy imbalances — that could interrupt the market’s presumed one-way upward move. Meanwhile, Iran announced a halt to its military operations against Israel, signalling a ceasefire after months of escalating tensions across the region. However, Tehran coupled the announcement with a stern warning that any renewed Israeli military action would trigger a stronger response. Separately, a federal judge struck down the $100,000 fee imposed on new H-1B visas for highly skilled foreign workers by President Donald Trump, ruling the charge unlawful and invalid. US District Judge Leo Sorokin in Boston issued the decision in a case brought by 20 Democratic state attorneys general. In Asia, South Korea’s economy grew at a stronger pace in Q1 2026 than previously estimated. Revised data from the Bank of Korea showed GDP expanding 1.8% QoQ in the January-March quarter, compared with the earlier estimate of 1.7%. Adding to the positive sentiment around AI, Nvidia announced a series of partnerships in South Korea with technology giants SK Hynix and Naver as it seeks to secure critical memory chips and broaden its customer base. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang noted that SK Hynix’s plan to double memory wafer capacity by 2030 may still be insufficient to meet surging AI-related demand. On the trade front, India is likely to operationalise its trade agreement with the US only after ensuring that tariff rates under the pact are lower than those applicable to competing economies, according to a senior commerce ministry official. The official added that the US is likely to offer India a lower tariff under Section 301 of the US Trade Act of 1974. Against the West Asia crisis backdrop, Indian Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri stated that any expansion of the Gulf crisis into other regions could create fresh challenges and remain a cause for concern. However, he highlighted that India currently holds sufficient oil and gas reserves to last 76-80 days. On the domestic front, the Centre has reduced the number of subsidised LPG cylinders available annually under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) from nine to four, while retaining the subsidy at ₹300 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Under the revised framework, PMUY beneficiaries will receive the subsidy on only the first four refills each year, translating into an annual benefit of ₹1,200 per household. Meanwhile, India’s current account recorded a surprise surplus of $7.1 billion in Q4FY26, equivalent to 0.7% of GDP, supported by a strong invisible trade surplus and a sequential narrowing in the merchandise trade deficit. The surplus compares with $13.7 billion, or 1.4% of GDP, recorded in Q4FY25. For FY26 as a whole, however, the current account deficit stood at $25.2 billion, or 0.6% of GDP, compared with $22.9 billion, or 0.6% of GDP, in FY25. Asian market Asian market opened higher today followed by the US market as sentiment was buoyed by a bounce back in chip stocks and announcements from Iran and Israel that they had halted attacks against each other for now. Brent: 93.90 DXY: 100.02 US10Y: 4.50% GIFTNIFTY: -0.38% NLC India OFS at ₹303; Grasim approves ₹3,094 crore capex for Lyocell expansion A US federal judge has invalidated Donald Trump’s $100,000 H-1B visa fee, ruling it was an unauthorized tax imposed without Congress' approval. Zepto has filed IPO papers with SEBI to raise ₹8,010 crore. The quick commerce unicorn targets expansion as India’s fast delivery market heats up. India’s aviation market is strong but high fuel costs and taxes may slow growth, says IATA chief Willie Walsh ahead of taking over as IndiGo CEO. Apple has upgraded Siri with AI capabilities at WWDC, adding Apple Intelligence, child safety tools, and deeper app integration across its ecosystem. OpenAI files confidential IPO paperwork with SEC, opening door to potential listing as AI race heats up with rivals like Anthropic and SpaceX. Zepto files IPO papers with Sebi as revenue surges 75% in Q4 FY26, even as full-year losses widen ahead of its Rs 11,000 crore listing plan. Zepto founders Aadit Palicha and Kaivalya Vohra will not sell shares in IPO as VCs plan Rs 11,000 crore exit. Listing expected in July. US launches $750 premium visa service for faster interview slots from July 1, but approval not guaranteed as global processing delays persist. Key stock updates: Airtel, Vodafone Idea gain court relief; NLC India stake sale; TCS launches AI unit; JSW Energy expands. A US federal judge has struck down the Trump administration’s controversial $100,000 fee on new H-1B visas, declaring the massive charge unlawful, with US District Judge Leo Sorokin in Boston ruling that the government lacked the statutory authority. The Government of India (promoter group) is conducting an offer for sale in NLC India Ltd. The floor price is fixed at ₹303.0 per share, reflecting an approximate 9.8 per cent discount to the last closing price of ₹335.75. The total OFS size is 3 per cent or ₹1,260.5 crore (4.16 crore shares), comprising a base issue of 2 per cent or ₹840.3 crore (2.77 crore shares) and a green shoe option of 1 per cent or ₹420.2 crore (1.39 crore shares). The offer opens for non-retail investors on 9 June 2026 and for retail investors on 10 June 2026. Retail investors have a 10 per cent reservation, while mutual funds and insurance companies have a 25 per cent reservation. These 8 stocks have crossed their previous all-time highs despite a weak broader market. While fear, volatility, and negative sentiment dominate the market, a handful of stocks are quietly writing a different story. 🔥 KIMS 🔥 Inox India 🔥 NRB Bearings 🔥 Venus Remedies 🔥 Sai Life Sciences 🔥 Indo Borax & Chemicals 🔥 Thyrocare Technologies 🔥 Dee Development Engineers Samir Arora of Helios Capital said he spoke with a bunch of private bankers who indicated that India could receive up to $75 billion through RBI measures. India could receive over $40-50 billion through the FCNR and ECB routes over the next few months. Sheela Foam share price can rise to ₹750 Published on June 9, 2026 Copyright© 2026, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments. We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions | Institutional Subscriber
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Ramaco Resources, Inc. (METC) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/ramaco-resources-inc-metc-good-173549382.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T17:35:49Z
Description: Is METC a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Ramaco Resources, Inc. on Piggo’s Trading Desk’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Altria Group, Inc. (MO) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/altria-group-inc-mo-good-173535132.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T17:35:35Z
Description: Is MO a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Altria Group, Inc. on Investing Lawyer’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: The gravity of the SpaceX IPO
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4382883/posts
Time Published: 2026-06-08T17:23:12Z
Full Content:
Skip to comments. Posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind The most anticipated IPO in history will hit the market next week. When Elon Musk is involved, opinions tend to be firmly on one side or the other. In the case of the IPO S-1 filing , mention of colonizing Mars and mining asteroids only adds to the division. Today we are avoiding the spectacle and having a look at what the business is really about: the opportunities, the challenges and what the listing could mean for investors. What Happened In Markets This WeekHere’s a quick summary of what’s been going on:🤖 India loses edge as investors flock to Asia’s AI hubs ( CNBC )What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Today we are avoiding the spectacle and having a look at what the business is really about: the opportunities, the challenges and what the listing could mean for investors. What Happened In Markets This WeekHere’s a quick summary of what’s been going on:🤖 India loses edge as investors flock to Asia’s AI hubs ( CNBC )What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson What Happened In Markets This WeekHere’s a quick summary of what’s been going on:🤖 India loses edge as investors flock to Asia’s AI hubs ( CNBC )What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Here’s a quick summary of what’s been going on:🤖 India loses edge as investors flock to Asia’s AI hubs ( CNBC )What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson 🤖 India loses edge as investors flock to Asia’s AI hubs ( CNBC )What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson What happened: India has found itself on the wrong side of more than one trend lately. Energy and fertilizer costs are soaring due to the war in the Strait of Hormuz. Higher costs are hitting consumption, which is a key part of the growth narrative. At the same time investors are rushing to the Asian markets with AI exposure, an area where India lags. In particular, Taiwan and Korea’s markets are now highly concentrated AI bets. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. How it impacts investors: The way capital is chasing growth and momentum should also be seen as a warning: things can turn very quickly. India is now becoming a contrarian bet in Asia. It may turn out to be an effective diversifier at some point. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. Next steps: Use the Simply Wall St stock screener to hunt for potential opportunities in India;s equity market. 💸 Alphabet's $80 billion share sale puts capital markets in "unprecedented territory" ( CNBC )What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson What happened: Google's parent company has launched the largest equity offering in corporate history to fund its AI buildout. This is the first time one of the Mag 7’s AI capex ambitions have outgrown its ability to self-fund. Alphabet has raised projected capex for 2026 to between $180 billion and $190 billion, and said further increases in 2027 are likely too. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. How it impacts investors: Google may also be anticipating a squeeze on capital, with three trillion dollar IPOs on the way, and competitors increasing capex at the same time. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. Next steps: This is positive for the entire AI infrastructure supply chain. Check out the AI picks and shovels collection and this Powering the AI Revolution: Next-Gen Energy & Grid watchlist for some ideas. ⚡ SoftBank's €75bn french bet exposes Europe's AI power problem ( CNBC )What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. The SpaceX IPO countdown beginsLet’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson What happened: SoftBank plans to build 3.1 GW of AI data centers in northern France by 2031, including sites in Dunkirk, Bosquel, and Bouchain — its largest AI infrastructure investment in Europe. With over 60% of its power needs met by nuclear energy, France is uniquely placed to handle energy-intensive data center projects at a time when European industrial electricity prices are roughly double those in the US. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. How it impacts investors: This is a reminder also a blunt reminder that Europe's energy costs remain a liability in the global AI arms race. SoftBank will partner with Schneider Electric on a large-scale industrial production cluster giving France a foothold in the AI supply chain. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. Next steps: Europe’s tight energy markets make capacity expansion an imperative. You can explore the energy and utilities sectors in Europe with the Simply Wall St stock screener . You can also check the Schneider Electric company report to find peers and competitors. Let’s start by laying out the key numbers:The Initial public offeringDate : 12 June 2026 Ticker : SPCX New shares for sale : 555.6 million, or ~ 4% of the 12.9 billion shares currently outstanding. Underwriting syndicate : 21 banks and brokers with option to acquire an additional 83 million shares. IPO share price : $135 (fixed price as per roadshow to institutions) Capital being raised : $75 billion Target market cap : $1.75 trillion market cap (at $135 share price) The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The financials (2025):Revenue ($ Billions)Operating profit/loss ($ Billions)Space (launch)$4.1-$0.6Connectivity (Starlink)$11.4$4.4AI (xAI and X)$3.2-$6.4Total$18.7-$2.6Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Context for the $1.75 trillion valuation target:95 times 2025 revenue and ~60 times 2026 revenue estimates$2.0 trillion to 2.4 trillion: Prediction market estimates for post IPO market cap $1.22 trillion: DCF estimate published by Aswath Damodaran (based on Launch and Starlink alone) $1.2 trillion: The valuation implied by the merger with xAI$800 billion: Implied value at last funding round $780 billion: Morningstar’s recent estimate The Business SegmentsSpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson SpaceX is known as a space business, but it’s evolving into more of an AI business now. The filing doc identifies a TAM (total addressable market) of $28.5 trillion. Regardless of how realistic that is, less than $2 trillion is related to space and connectivity. The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The big vision might be about making ‘life multiplanetary’ and colonizing Mars, the biggest immediate opportunity (and capex) is very much focused on AI. Nevertheless the space and connectivity segments are also crucial cogs. The Space segment: LaunchThe OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The OpportunitySpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson SpaceX effectively dominates the global launch market. The company’s success with reusable boosters, and its ability to scale, have completely changed the economics of getting objects into orbit. SpaceX Low Earth Launch Costs - ARKInvest Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Significantly lower launch costs make more use cases viable for SpaceX and for its customers. And owning the dominant launch business also gives SpaceX a cost advantage for any of its businesses that use the platform.Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Challenges and RisksThe launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The launch business is a low margin, and capital intensive business, though it exists to provide a platform for SpaceX’s other ambitions.The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The future of SpaceX depends largely on making the massive Starship vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. In particular, the heat shield material needs to repeatedly withstand thermal stress. This is a crucial engineering challenge that hasn’t been solved yet. In fact, the S-1 even warns that the rocket program (amongst other programs) "may never achieve commercial viability"In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson In addition, the launch business has struggled to get to a reliable launch cadence for its V2 Starlink satellites.The Connectivity Segment: StarlinkThe OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The OpportunityStarlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Starlink, which provides fixed broadband and direct-to-cell connectivity via satellite, is the most profitable segment. Falling launch costs have resulted in falling bandwidth costs, allowing Starlink to target a larger market. Satellite Bandwidth Costs - ARKInvest Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Starlink currently has 10 million subscribers, a fraction of its potential market . In particular, parts of the world that are underserved by mobile and terrestrial networks are key opportunities. Africa’s mobile penetration rate is below 50%, with mobile internet penetration at 28% (i.e. ~400 million people). Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Direct-to-cell connections (which don’t require special hardware) mean mobile carriers around the world could ultimately be disrupted. SpaceX has also acquired spectrum licenses from EchoStar, expanding its footprint substantially.Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Competition in this space is increasing, but Starlink has a major scale and cost advantage.Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Challenges and RisksStarlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Starlink has several challenges, on the technical, financial and regulatory front: The satellites are ‘consumable’ by design, and only last for 5 years. This means they can be upgraded, but it also means 20% of the fleet must be replaced each year, at a cost of $2.7 billion. This is where Starlink's 2025 EBITDA ( aka operating earnings ) of $7.1 billion is a little misleading, as it strips out depreciation, which is a real and ongoing cost for Starlink. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites are susceptible to urban congestion when too many users share the same satellite ‘beam’.Mobile bandwidth licences are typically awarded to networks by regulators. Technically, this doesn’t affect Starlink but governments can criminalize the hardware or use of satellite connections. Several countries in Africa and Asia are already blocking the network for a range of reasons.Starlink’s monthly average revenue per user has already fallen from $99 in 2023 to $66 in Q1 2026. It’s likely to keep falling, as the company targets developing economies, and as competition increases. Starlink monthly ARPU - SpaceX S-1 Document The AI Segment: xAI, Grok, X, COLOSSUSThe OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The OpportunityWhether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Whether by accident or design, AI has become the core opportunity for SpaceX. Demand for AI compute power is surging, as shown by xAI’s recent deal with Anthropic.Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Anthropic will be paying $1.25 billion per month for compute power from the Colossus 1 data center. This implies that xAI doesn’t anticipate enough demand for its own Grok LLM, but it's not a bad plan B, and almost doubles the company’s revenue.If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack: The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com . Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel . Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The chart below shows TSMC’s net margin, which is currently 46%, and it’s been above 30% for the past 10 years. This is a key part of the SpaceX strategy. Every bit of margin that SpaceX can avoid paying is an opportunity to gain a cost advantage. TSMC: revenue, earnings and cash flow - Simply Wall St Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Challenges and RisksThis incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson This incredibly ambitious plan obviously comes with incredibly big challenges. These are the most notable ones: The AI business is already burning cash: $6 billion in 2025 and $2.5 billion in Q1 2026. Every part of the AI business is incredibly capital intensive. The Terafab is set to cost $55 billion initially, $119 billion for the full build out, and eventually trillions, apparently! Even if AI demand continues to grow, it might be quite cyclical, which will make raising capital tricky, and possibly expensive.Manufacturing semiconductor chips is one of the most complex processes in the world, and few companies have managed to do it.Orbital data centers are an unproven idea. Conducting heat away from the server stacks in a vacuum is seen as the biggest challenge. The Grok models are currently lagging rivals, both in terms of performance benchmarks and usage . To fully capitalize on the opportunity, xAI needs to use its own hardware and models. Beyond SpaceX: The potential impact of the IPOThis IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson This IPO is unprecedented in size, and is likely to have implications for the broader market. Based on closing prices on 3rd June, and a $1.75 billion market cap, SpaceX would rank as #9 in the global market cap table. Coincidentally this is just ahead of Tesla.The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Trillion Dollar ClubNo.CompanyMarket cap (US$ Billions)S&P 500 weightNasdaq 100 weightPrice to sales (P/S) ratioNet income margin1 Nvidia $5,2208.4%8.6%2163%2 Apple $4,5406.9%7.1%1027%3 Alphabet $4,3306.0%6.7%1038%4 Microsoft $3,1605.3%5.4%1039%5 Amazon $2,6703.9%5.1%3.612%6 Broadcom $2,2903.3%3.5%3437%7 TSMC $2,200n/an/a1747%8 Saudi Aramco $1,760n/an/a422%9 SpaceX ~$1,750TBCTBC~95-26%10 Tesla $1,5901.8%3.3%164%Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Bending the Index RulesBased on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Based on market cap alone, SpaceX belongs in major indexes like S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100. But index providers usually have other rules, covering free float size, months listed and profitability.This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson This time, index providers seem to be going out of their way to accommodate SpaceX:Nasdaq-100: The brand new ‘Fast Entry rule’ means the stock will be in the index after 15 trading days. For context, it took Facebook seven months, and Tesla 3 years. Approximately $400 billion tracks this index, implying ~$25 billion would need to go into SpaceX. S&P is still deliberating; but may drop its profitability rule for megacaps, and allow inclusion in Q4 2026 or Q1 2027. Over $20 trillion in assets tracks the S&P 500 index . That means as much as $400 billion would ultimately need to be rotated out of ~499 stocks and into SpaceX. Other indexes will be affected too, but these are the ones with large AUM (assets under management) tracking them.If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson If the S&P inclusion only happens in 6 months time, hedge funds will be attempting to pre-empt the rotation, which could be easier said than done.If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson If SpaceX does go into the S&P 500 index, anyone invested in any product tracking that index will end up with SpaceX, whether they like it or not, and whether they like the price, at the time of inclusion, or not. It’s worth noting the anticipated price-to-sales ratio of 94 times sales. The highest comparable ratios are Broadcom (34 times sales) and Palantir (65 times sales) both of which are growing and very profitable.Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Some are anticipating a move to equal weighted index funds. If this works out badly for ETF investors that could be the case.Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Market LiquidityThe implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The implications for index funds will take a while to unfold. In the meantime,$75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson $75 billion is a massive amount of liquidity to be absorbed by the market. The combination of unknown demand, unknown supply from existing shareholders, and a potential liquidity squeeze in other markets, means extreme volatility could be on the cards.The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Tesla Scenarios There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson There’s a lot of speculation around Tesla, and a potential merger of Musk’s two companies. An amended IPO filing doc included the following text: “may issue a significant amount of equity in connection with future transactions” which only added to the speculation.There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson There are good reasons for a merger, but it may be worth keeping an open mind. Some analysts have pointed out that it might be more difficult to raise further capital after a merger, and terms for a deal would be difficult to negotiate. Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Whether it happens or not this could become a major part of the narrative around Tesla share price. Check the Tesla Community Page to see what others are saying about the outlook. The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The Space and AI EcosystemsSome of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Some of the capital being raised will stay within SpaceX. But a lot will ultimately flow to suppliers and partners. Based on the capex plans, the AI ecosystem is in line for the bigger share. That means companies supplying GPUs, CPUs, networking, and energy infrastructure equipment. But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson But the developments are also positive for the broader aerospace and defense industry , which is also smaller, and getting a lot of attention now. The Beyond the Moon watchlist includes the key space related companies, large and small. 💡 The Insight: Investing in optionalityIt really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson It really isn’t surprising to see the market so divided on the valuation and outlook for SpaceX.The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The bull thesis combines innovation, vertical integration, economies of scale and a (currently) very real demand story. If everything goes right, the competitive advantages stack up quickly. But that thesis also includes unproven ideas and problems that still need to be solved.If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson If you base your thesis only on proven technologies, revenue and margins, the price tag won’t make sense.The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson The reality for capital intensive businesses is that things take longer and cost more than expected. All the hurdles that need to be overcome or solved, are milestones that need to be ticked off.As each gets ticked off, the long term goal becomes more probable. This means the company earns a higher valuation.When a milestone is missed, the valuation needs to be reset for a longer time horizon.If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. TOPICS: Business/Economy; Computers/Internet; Society KEYWORDS: investment; ipo; spacex; starlink 1 posted on 06/08/2026 10:23:12 AM PDT by SeekAndFind [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. 2 posted on 06/08/2026 10:29:16 AM PDT by ClearCase_guy [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. 3 posted on 06/08/2026 10:32:48 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (BTW, Apple's WWDC 2026 is playing in a background tab.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ 4 posted on 06/08/2026 10:41:51 AM PDT by UnwashedPeasant (The pandemic we suffer from is not COVID. It is Marxist Democrat Leftism. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. 5 posted on 06/08/2026 11:12:19 AM PDT by eyeamok [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: eyeamok I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. 6 posted on 06/08/2026 1:51:46 PM PDT by chrisser (I lost my vaccine card in a tragic boating accident. ) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 5 | View Replies] To: SeekAndFind The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. 7 posted on 06/08/2026 3:41:58 PM PDT by Mr. Blond [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 1 | View Replies] To: UnwashedPeasant “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. 8 posted on 06/08/2026 3:51:41 PM PDT by captmar-vell [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 4 | View Replies] To: AdmSmith; AnonymousConservative; Arthur Wildfire! March; Berosus; Bockscar; BraveMan; cardinal4; ... SpaceX has just announced that they have entered into a $920 million per month agreement with Google to provide compute capacity, according to a new filing. [06/06/2026]Elon Musk Announces Google AI Infrastructure Deal Days Ahead of SpaceX IPO [06/08/2026]Congressman Brandon Gill calls out Democrat hypocrisy over being outraged Elon Musk got involved in politics when they are the party of big money donors and Hollywood [06/08/2026]Tesla's Record Sales Everywhere - Cybercab Army Spotted - SpaceX Signed a $33B deal with Google [06/07/2026]Farmer donates land for a park, city sells it for data center development -- $10 gift became $10M for city government, with $30M tax expected over next decade [06/09/2026]Panic Porn: If S&P Dow Jones rewrites its listing rules, SpaceX and Anthropic will benefit -- investors won't [06/07/2026]Panic Porn: Your 401K Is Their Exit Strategy (SpaceX, Anthropic, OpenAI) [06/09/2026]:Media Orchestra:Starmer accuses Musk of trying to 'whip up division' in UK over Henry Nowak murder [06/04/2026]Elon Musk shifts social media focus from SpaceX to UK far-right politics [06/03/2026]Why can't Elon Musk leave Britain alone? [06/05/2026]An Actual Problem: Retirees Lost $7.7 Billion to Scams Last Year. These 5 Frauds Did the Most Damage [06/08/2026] 9 posted on 06/09/2026 7:40:57 AM PDT by SunkenCiv (TDS -- it's not just for DNC shills anymore -- oh, wait, yeah it is.) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] To: SunkenCiv If demand for AI compute does continue to grow, then SpaceX is building the full AI stack:.The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level.Amazing plan... 10 posted on 06/09/2026 8:49:20 AM PDT by GOPJ (Democrats support illegals, commies, looters, criminals, and liars in 'the press.' VOTE AGAINST THEM) [ Post Reply | Private Reply | To 3 | View Replies] Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson If you pay for all the success upfront, there’s no margin for error, and possibly no upside either. Shareholders living on the Moon will find the gravity of the situation to be somewhat lessened. LANDING! SpaceX lands B1067 for its 35th time during the Starlink Group 10-35 mission 0:33 Launch Heaven 13.9K subscribers (buncha) views June 8, 2026 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUe-N4aeya8 Over 10,000 Starlink sats are up there, Sam’s Club just started carrying (or at least, I just noticed it) the Starlink downlink kits, $55 a month basic service. Fidelity is making the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) available to any customer with a retail brokerage account with $2,000 or more in the account. https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/trading-investing/spacex-ipo-explained Is $135 a bargain price? It was $45 in November: https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/SPAX.PVT/ From dial up to compuserve til today, Starlink is by far the best Internet Service I have ever had.I have 3 of them, 1 at each house. I’m a fan as well, being out in the boonies. Way better than the copper DSL from Frontier that was my only other option. Part of me likes the idea of owning a piece of Starlink, but I don’t know the first thing about IPOs other than how to spell them. The SPCX IPO will open priced according to future valuation, ie at the top. AMZN and META(nee Facebook) opened at a more objective valuation. This will not be the same as buying in early. “Is $135 a bargain price?” DYODD of course, but IMO it will be when they add Tesla down the road. Fidelity has an Indication of Interest or (IOI) while at Schwab you can submit a Conditional Offer to Purchase (COTP) but have to affirm the finalized IPO price, which should already be locked in at $135 but can expect it officially by 6/11 close of Business. I haven’t seen an affirmation yet myself. If your plan is to hold for long term growth, its a good buy at the IPO price. What the price will do soon after is anyone’s guess, likely rocket higher (no pun intended) before crashing back to Earth and then over compensating for a time. The S&P500 wont change their rules, good for them. Just note there will be increments of unlock at 90, 120 days etc., float is 5% (I think) however Elon and close associates are subject to a one year + one day lock up. .The Grok series of LLMs , trained with the help of massive quantities of data from X.com .Logic and memory chips, eventually designed and manufactured at Terafab , a joint venture with Tesla , xAI and Intel .. Training and inference at the COLOSSUS datacenters . xAI is also providing compute to Cursor, collaborating on models, and potentially acquiring the company for $60 billion . Orbital, solar-powered, data centers in space. Unproven and unprecedented, these together with the SpaceX launch platform would complete the vertically integrated AI stack, with cost advantages at every level. Amazing plan... Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works. Free Republic Browse · Search General/Chat Topics · Post Article FreeRepublic, LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794 FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Transcript: Chris Davis of Davis Funds
URL: https://ritholtz.com/2026/06/transcript-chris-davis-2/
Time Published: 2026-06-08T16:30:45Z
Full Content:
June 8, 2026 12:30pm by Barry Ritholtz The transcript from this week’s MiB: Beating the S&P For Generations with Chris Davis of Davis Funds, is below. You can stream and download our full conversation, including any podcast extras, on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, YouTube (video), YouTube (audio), and Bloomberg. All of our earlier podcasts on your favorite pod hosts can be found here. ~~~ Masters in Business · Bloomberg Radio Barry Ritholtz in conversation with Chris Davis, Chairman & Portfolio Manager, Davis Advisors [00:00:02] Announcer: Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio News. This is Masters in Business with Barry Ritholtz on Bloomberg Radio. [00:00:17] Barry Ritholtz: This week on the podcast. Strap yourself in for another banger. Chris Davis chews up the scenery. He is the portfolio manager of Davis Advisors. They’ve been kicking the S&P’s butt for the past, I don’t know, since 1969. $20 billion in client assets. Fascinating conversation. Charlie Munger was his mentor. He sits on the board of Koch and on Berkshire Hathaway. I thought this conversation was spectacular. I think you will also, with no further ado, my sit down with Chris Davis. [00:00:53] Chris Davis: It’s so always good to be with you. Thank you so much. [00:00:56] Barry Ritholtz: So before we get into your career — master’s degree with honors from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland — like how did that come about? [00:01:08] Chris Davis: Well, one of the things that confuses people is I actually don’t have an undergraduate degree. I only have the master’s degree. Wait, how — I sort of skipped that middle step. [00:01:18] Barry Ritholtz: So did you go to an undergraduate college? [00:01:21] Chris Davis: Well, what happened is I went to St. Andrews. I had originally only intended to go for a year. I wanted to be a veterinarian. That’s a long side story. And I had worked at the Bronx Zoo. I had worked at the — [00:01:33] Barry Ritholtz: Wait, wait, wait — [00:01:33] Chris Davis: Humane Society. [00:01:34] Barry Ritholtz: So the original plan wasn’t “dad’s a fund manager, grandfather’s a fund manager, I guess I’m gonna go into the family business.” That was not the — [00:01:44] Chris Davis: Plan. Definitely not. But I give both of them credit. They felt that all of their kids should be financially literate. And so every kid worked for my father or for my grandfather at some point and learned, because they just felt like, look, you’ll have money over time. It’s not taught in schools, just the basic fundamentals of investing. And God help you, if you turn on the TV, you’re gonna get a totally distorted view of what investing is. [00:02:15] Barry Ritholtz: Fire hose of nonsense. [00:02:17] Chris Davis: Exactly. And so we all had this grounding. But for example, my smartest sibling without question is my younger sister, but she’s a small town doctor. But boy, does she understand investing. She’s very thoughtful in how she’s managed her financial affairs. So we owed that route, but we all thought we were going different paths. She was interested in medicine. I was interested in veterinary medicine. And so I was gonna go to Cornell, and I was very young for my high school class, and I was very late hitting puberty. I mean, I was five feet tall my senior year in high school. That’s when I broke five feet. So you can imagine what this looked like, but my scores and grades were okay. And so Cornell took me into their pre-vet program, but the woman that ran it said, look, this is a seven year program, it’s intense. Why don’t you take a year off, like a gap year? So I proposed that to my father. He said, we don’t do that in our family. You could go study, but there’s no year off, like to go ski or find yourself. [00:03:27] Barry Ritholtz: Did you skip a grade, or — like me — were you born in October, November, December, so you’re young relative to the rest of — [00:03:33] Chris Davis: No, I had skipped a grade sort of early because, bizarrely — nobody in my family believes this now — but I didn’t talk until quite late. So they had sort of, and then when I started talking, they jumped me ahead — [00:03:47] Barry Ritholtz: Making up for — [00:03:48] Chris Davis: Exactly. It never stopped since then. But anyway, so I had this year, and it was the first year that the University of St. Andrews was interested in taking direct applications from students where they dropped the requirement to have A levels or O levels, the British entry exams, mostly because they wanted the Yankee dollar. Of course, you’ve gotta remember Thatcher had just become prime minister. She was slashing the public support of the Scottish universities. So I applied. There were, I think, eight of us Americans that came in that first year. And they had a program where after two years you could apply into the honors program, which would allow you to concentrate on just one subject. And I ended up picking two. But needless to say — [00:04:41] Barry Ritholtz: What were the — [00:04:42] Chris Davis: Two? It was philosophy and theology. [00:04:44] Barry Ritholtz: Very — [00:04:45] Chris Davis: Interesting. I picked them my freshman year thinking, well, when I go back to Cornell, I’m gonna be filled up with organic chemistry and biology and anatomy and so on. So I may as well pick things that I’ll never get to study again. So I picked things like medieval history, philosophy, theology, and — [00:05:03] Barry Ritholtz: I love that. That’s something I always, in hindsight, wish I did. I started out physics and math and switched to political science and philosophy. So I got to study some stuff that was fun. But medieval history sounds like that would be a delightful semester. [00:05:22] Chris Davis: You used the perfect word — fun. I mean, I became a good student in high school. I wasn’t a good student before. In fact, recently I found my eighth grade final report card. I went to a school here in New York, and it was a pretty strict, wear-a-uniform sort of boys school. And the headmaster would review each report card before it went to the parents and then make a comment on the bottom. And the headmaster’s comment on my final elementary school report card was: “Yet another semester of squandered potential.” [00:05:57] Barry Ritholtz: Not living up to his potential. That’s — [00:06:00] Chris Davis: Oh my god, my — [00:06:00] Barry Ritholtz: That’s a classic. [00:06:01] Chris Davis: My children found that — my mother gave it to my children, which was a big problem. You can imagine. But anyway, so I thought I’ll just be in Scotland for a year. I picked subjects I would never study again. They were so fun. It was just — [00:06:15] Barry Ritholtz: Especially in Scotland, studying medieval history. [00:06:18] Chris Davis: A medieval university, where Hume had been a professor. I mean, it was just amazing. And of course it’s also a Presbyterian seminary — St. Mary’s, which is one of the colleges there. So I thought, well — and it wasn’t that I was a deeply faithful sort of person. I more thought of theology from the point of view of: people organize their lives around religion. People die for it. I should study this. But there was also a secondary reason I was interested, which is, if you look at communities that have a religious institution at their center — whether they’re rural, urban, suburban — almost all outcomes are better. Intact families, crime rates, graduation rates, all of these sorts of statistics tend to go better. So to me, I was lucky that I never had one of those childhoods where it was beaten into me or something. So it was more this curiosity about how it seemed to serve communities to have a shared value system. Anyway, I picked those subjects, I applied into this honors program, so I was able to get the master’s at the end, but there was no undergraduate degree along the way. [00:07:34] Barry Ritholtz: And there was no going back to Cornell to become a vet. Although the ardor for that faded. [00:07:40] Chris Davis: Although because I deferred my admission freshman year, I still get mailings from their alumni department because I matriculated, but then deferred. And I’d like to think the development department has nothing to do with them sending me these mailings. But I lived on a sheep farm in Scotland, and of course that was when I realized I was confusing loving animals with wanting to be a vet. And those are very different things. [00:08:06] Barry Ritholtz: Yeah. Very much so. We used to foster dogs and get them adopted. And anytime I meet someone who’s like, “oh, I really don’t care for dogs,” it’s like — [00:08:19] Chris Davis: Oh, that’s a big X. Done. We weren’t allowed to have dogs when I was a kid, but I grew up right in the city, on East 84th Street. But my parents, from the time I was in maybe third grade or so — probably eight or nine years old, something like that — they said I could walk dogs, I could be a dog walker, provided I didn’t cross any streets. So I’d put up a notice in the elevator in our building if anybody needed their dog walked. And then I would just walk the dogs around the block before school and after school. I can still remember the name of every dog I walked. Which is amazing. And I loved it. And of course it actually became seed capital, which is unexpected. But the reason was, I could probably charge 50 cents a walk back then. So it was nothing. But I got to be with dogs and I enjoyed it. It was like a paper route. [00:09:11] Barry Ritholtz: And you’re running a small business. I had a paper route, and it was just so formative. [00:09:16] Chris Davis: So formative. And this was like a paper route for city kids, because you couldn’t have a paper route in New York. But then an amazing thing happened. New York City, around — it’d have to be around 1977 or ’78 — passed the pooper scooper — [00:09:32] Barry Ritholtz: Law, I remember. [00:09:33] Chris Davis: And everything changed, because people had these dogs and nobody even knew what to do. Nobody had ever imagined cleaning up after a dog. There were all sorts of inventions — [00:09:47] Barry Ritholtz: Just the bag. It’s not that complicated. [00:09:49] Chris Davis: But people didn’t — people were so grossed out, they had to carry shovels with them. [00:09:52] Barry Ritholtz: You change the diaper on the baby — this is just processed food. There’s no big deal. [00:09:58] Chris Davis: Well, for me, it meant that my rates could go from 50 cents to $5, and people were glad to pay it. And instead of one or two dogs, I had four or five. It was real money. Because what it meant was I was suddenly making $50 a week in — [00:10:16] Barry Ritholtz: As a 10-year-old. That’s good. [00:10:17] Chris Davis: That’s good. And so you start thinking about — holy cow, I’m making $250 a month, I’m making thousands of dollars a year. And it was just fantastic. So I’ve loved dogs ever since. [00:10:32] Barry Ritholtz: So let’s talk a little bit about the early days of the career. You start as an accountant at State Street Bank and ultimately end up as an unglamorous research analyst at Tanaka Capital Management. These are very much bottom rung on the Wall Street ladder. What’d you learn in those days? [00:10:53] Chris Davis: Well, it wasn’t really my first job. My first job was, I became a pastoral assistant at the American Cathedral in Paris. So I moved from rural Scotland to Paris. Well, that was like landing in Oz. Honest to God, my eyes lit up. But again, in the same way that living on the sheep farm convinced me I was confusing loving animals with wanting to be a vet, working for the American Cathedral convinced me I was confusing loving people with wanting to be a priest or something. So I moved from there to Boston and I thought about teaching. I actually even applied to the CIA, because I was very interested in research and international affairs. I’d lived abroad five years then. And I thought it would be an amazing thing to be the greatest expert on, let’s say, Czechoslovakia — to learn the language, the history, the people, the economics, the business, the military, the topography. And so I didn’t wanna be a spy, but I wanted to be an analyst. And the CIA wisely turned me down, having briefly had a stint in the Workers’ Revolutionary Party. And — [00:12:09] Barry Ritholtz: So they looked at your history and said, this guy’s — [00:12:12] Chris Davis: They were like, this needs to ripen a little more. [00:12:15] Barry Ritholtz: We don’t know if you have the ethical malleability that we’re looking for. [00:12:19] Chris Davis: But so I started thinking about the summers that I had spent working with my dad and my grandfather, both of whom loved their jobs. They loved investing, they loved their career. And of course that was infectious. Even as kids, I thought the idea of investing was so interesting, because they didn’t highlight the math to begin with. They highlighted the stories, the people, the ideas. But I realized that even though I’d had this study of the idea of businesses being made up of people and ideas, I had no grounding in the rigor of it. And so what I like to say is, my father and grandfather let us live in a foreign country — like live in France for some time, hear French spoken, see this new culture — before we had to learn the grammar and read the textbooks and so on. So they got the order right for setting the hook of curiosity. But I knew enough to know that I couldn’t go into investing without a real grounding. And of course, a bank is perfect. I interviewed a lot of places. George Putnam himself turned me down for a job at Putnam. So I had a lot of rejects before. And State Street Bank had a program for entry level accountants. They had a wonderful training program. I had an operation center in Quincy, Massachusetts, and I would take the red line down there, and I could do my day job, but they would also pay for any schooling you wanted. They had something called the State Street Institute, and you could take courses in anything to do with economics, accounting, business. And — you took advantage of that? — I took advantage of that, although I will say I was fooled by one course. They had a course in their catalog that was called “The Rules of Rhythmic Touch.” Now I — [00:14:28] Barry Ritholtz: Thought that sounds like massage. That — [00:14:30] Chris Davis: Sounds pretty good, right? I circled that one in the little course catalog. It was only a two-night course, and I showed up, and it was how to use a 10-key punch tape calculator without looking at your hands. So when you’re summing up a column — a skill for an accountant. It’s the rules of rhythmic touch. And I would say, if you put one on this table now, I would bet you a large sum of money I could run a column of numbers faster than you. [00:15:01] Barry Ritholtz: I’m gonna defer on that one. [00:15:03] Chris Davis: So that’s how I got the grounding there. Graham Tanaka was somebody I had met during my summer jobs. He was a very talented analyst at Fiduciary Trust. He’d been at JP Morgan before, and we’d stayed in touch. And I learned that he was hanging out his own shingle and starting his own firm. He’s Japanese American, really a very driven, talented guy. And he said he wanted an apprentice — I would be his first hire and we would go from there. And that was a terrific experience. [00:15:44] Barry Ritholtz: How long did you stay at Tanaka? [00:15:46] Chris Davis: I stayed there about two years. Because what happened after the first stretch is, my grandfather, who I was close with — when I went to work for Tanaka, my grandfather opened up an account at Tanaka, because he had big investments in Japanese firms. He had a lot of admiration for Japanese culture and values. And he admired — this is — [00:16:13] Barry Ritholtz: Late seventies, early eighties. [00:16:15] Chris Davis: This was late eighties now. So we’re probably in ’89, something like ’88. But Graham was a growth investor primarily in the US, and he just happened to have Japanese heritage. So my grandfather opened an account, and as the time there progressed, my grandfather was worried about his health failing. He loved the business, and he wanted to die at his desk. And so he started asking if I would come in on the weekends and go through his accounts with him. And Graham, of course, was so respectful of that. So it was a very gradual transition out. There wasn’t an end date of my time with Graham so much as there was a start date of my time working with my dad and grandfather. [00:17:04] Barry Ritholtz: So your father launched Davis Advisors in 1969. And your grandfather was still running his Davis investing shop in parallel. Did they ever end up merging? What happened when you decided, all right, it’s time? [00:17:25] Chris Davis: Well, my father was my grandfather’s only son. And as often happens, they had a very complicated relationship, I’m sure. And so they never worked together. My father grew up with this famous name, because the numbers were right in the beginning. It was a hundred thousand dollars that he borrowed from his wife’s family. It was 800 million when he died. And it was 2.2 billion when his wife died. And she was the successor trustee. And then it all went to charity after that. He didn’t believe in inheritance, but it was in trust for her. And she lived to be 106. Although, I will tell you, I managed her account, and in 2008, of course, I had to go see her. And we had a lot of financial stocks, and we had a really bad mark at the bottom, probably down 40 or 50%. And I went to see her in Florida, and I said, grand, I just want you to know the businesses are sound, we took some body blows, but in the long run it’s going to be fine. And she said, “You idiot, I’m 98 years old. What do I care?” She said, “I don’t buy green bananas. And you’re telling me I’m down 50%? Go get back to work.” So she teased me, because of course she lived long enough to see it all come back. And she would always tease me about not buying green bananas, and my telling her she just had to have a little bit of a longer term perspective. But anyway, my grandfather built his firm, which was called Shelby Cullom Davis & Company. My father built his, which in the beginning was called Davis, Palmer and Biggs. And then the New York Venture Fund was a fund managed by Davis, Palmer and Biggs. And when I was working at Tanaka, I went to a meeting — it was Chubb Insurance, an analyst day sort of thing. And there weren’t that many analysts then, so it was held around a big boardroom table. And the CEO was Dean O’Hare. And I looked around the table, and both my father and grandfather were at the same meeting by chance. And I thought, this seems a little nuts. And so I spoke to them both, because I was very close with them both. One of the things my father was very clear on is, he wanted out at age 60. He said, hard stop. And here was my grandfather at the time, and he was probably in his late eighties, early eighties then. And he said, I wanna die at my desk. I mean, he was the one that called investing “the best game in town.” He would say, this is the best game in town. He loved his firm — and now his firm, most of it was his own capital. So in a way he was just managing his own, but he loved being in the flow. In a way, my grandfather loved being a great man. He had served as an ambassador. He was a co-founder of the Heritage Foundation, chairman for a long time, had very conservative political views — although that was a slightly different organization, very different 25 years ago than it is now. But he was a passionate Reagan Republican, sort of a Hoover Institute Republican. And his namesake, Shelby Cullom, was a Republican senator and governor under Lincoln. So it was in him deep. And so he loved the game, and it wouldn’t have occurred to him to stop working. My father loved investing, but he did not like the responsibility of the business. He didn’t like boards and clients and employees. That was not his thing. He was a much more — wonderful human being, but very different than my grandfather. So he wanted out before he turned 60, my grandfather wanted to die at his desk. And I thought, well, here I am. I don’t know what I am at the time, 26 or something. And I was like, here’s a great idea: why don’t we merge the companies, and then I’ll come in, and I’ll learn from both of you. And I was an S&L and a banking analyst then. And of course this was going right into the teeth of the S&L crisis. So it was an exciting time to invest. And then we’ll figure out a way for the three of us to do this. [00:22:15] Barry Ritholtz: And how long did it take for that to all come together? [00:22:18] Chris Davis: My father turned 60 in 1997, 1998, somewhere like that. And my grandfather died — [00:22:29] Barry Ritholtz: He’s 86, 88 — [00:22:32] Chris Davis: Something like that. Don’t quiz me. My grandfather died in, let’s see, 1994. So I’d have to say he was 86 or 87 when he died. And so, in a way, the timing all sort of overlapped beautifully. My grandfather worked almost to the end. My father helped coach me through that transition, and then he walked out the door in 1998. And that was that. He’s been an incredible mentor. He’s always available to talk, but as he said, I’m here to give you advice, I’m not giving any orders. And he didn’t sit on our boards. He just walked out, and just like my grandfather, started giving his money away. He created and oversees the largest international scholarship program on Earth. [00:23:34] Barry Ritholtz: And I know there’s a foundation. I haven’t read the book, but there’s John Rothchild, who was, I think, Peter Lynch’s co-author. He’s a lovely man. “The Davis Dynasty.” How odd is it to have — hey, the story, the game isn’t over, and you are writing this book. How odd is it to be part of a book like that? [00:24:02] Chris Davis: Well, first, it’s probably a book read by dozens of people nationwide. Because remember, it is the riveting biography of the Dean of Insurance Stocks. So that’s a pretty narrow pool. Not — [00:24:15] Barry Ritholtz: Not a hot seller, you’re saying. [00:24:17] Chris Davis: And I do think I experienced the writing of that book as sort of terrifying. [00:24:28] Barry Ritholtz: A lot to live up to. It was a lot — [00:24:30] Chris Davis: Your dad and your grandfather. It was a lot to live up to. Sure. And I will say it’s something that I’m just profoundly grateful to my dad for — well, really to both of them. But my dad is a very humble person. And in that book, it is 90% about my grandfather, and my dad was sort of what I would call a quiet doer. He loved investing, he loved research, but he was very low profile. And so his view was very much that, despite the graphic title, this is really a book about his father. And I think that’s true. In fact, at our firm, we made slimmed-down versions of that book and called it “The Davis Discipline” instead, which was much more consistent with our view of life. Because “dynasty” implies dynastic wealth, it implies inheritance — [00:25:32] Barry Ritholtz: And there’s no inheritance. [00:25:33] Chris Davis: There’s none of that. Which — [00:25:35] Barry Ritholtz: I would imagine people would be surprised to learn. [00:25:39] Chris Davis: Yeah. And it’s funny, it’s not something I’m quite as fanatic about. [00:25:46] Barry Ritholtz: Well, Warren Buffett is a big believer in — hey, you should give your kids enough. I know I’m gonna mangle this — give them enough money so they could do anything, but not so much money that they can do nothing. [00:26:00] Chris Davis: You didn’t mangle it. You stuck the landing. That is exactly the right philosophy. And I would say my father and grandfather sort of believed that. I mean, I have siblings that were helped out. And I had an aunt that my grandfather left some money to, to ensure that she and her kids would be all right and so on. So it wasn’t ruthless. But I think it came from a place of compassion — this view that there’s something dignified about earning your way in the world. And, well, look, Barry, if you look at the greater world, there’s a lot of fear. And fear can be a motivator. But God, is it a weight. People live one operation away from bankruptcy, a layoff away from being foreclosed on. If you as a parent can put a safety net there, if our society doesn’t — if you as a parent can do that for your kids, and my grandfather did that, and my father did that — there was, I don’t think we ever grew up with a feeling that there wasn’t a safety net. And so the freedom from that fear is a huge gift you give your kids. It was a huge gift that was given to me. And that’s what gives you the confidence to be able to try anything. Because you’re not worried — especially when you start having kids and you think, my God, I can’t take this risk, I can’t leave State Street. It never occurred to me that I couldn’t leave. But I think their view was, the fortunate thing was both my dad and my grandfather were very frugal. So we didn’t live in hardship, but we certainly didn’t go to Southampton and Palm Beach and Aspen. They had a very puritanical sense of that. We went out to Fire Island, and we had a house on stilts — I still have a house out there, and it’s in a swamp. It’s one storm away from the end, and there’s no cars. You take a little ferry out there. I always think of it as the anti-Hamptons. [00:27:30] Barry Ritholtz: Oh, very much is. [00:28:00] Chris Davis: And that’s what I love. My parents had a place in Maine, but it was not a fancy deal. Like a little cabin. Not Kennebunkport. Well, they had a nice house, but it wasn’t a Newport mansion. And they had it because — they used to call them, in the twenties, people like my grandparents were called “rustics.” Isn’t that a funny word? It was people that were wealthy, but would go and live very simply in the summer. It’s very much a Scandinavian ethic. And I think it developed especially in the late 19th century — there was a movement called the Chautauqua movement, that I’m still a supporter of, which basically said: as the bourgeoisie and wealth were being created, there was this one branch of wealth creators that decided they wanted to be English aristocrats. And they built mansions in Newport, and they had yachts. And then there was another branch that said, that’s not the American way. Rockefeller in many ways embodied a certain amount of that sense of stewardship. Some were even more extreme in terms of restraint. But the Chautauqua movement sprung up — they created these places, there’s still one left, it’s in upstate New York, where you would go with your family for self-improvement. And you would live simply, and there would be lectures. You would improve your mind, you’d improve your soul, you’d improve your health. And you’d bring your kids. There would be a sort of day camp for the kids, and there’d be church on Sunday. But it was a non-denominational church that was about service. And then there were lectures. It’s where Salman Rushdie was stabbed, if you remember, a couple of years ago. He was in Chautauqua, lecturing at this place that still exists, and people go for a week or two weeks every year. So the place I go on Fire Island was part of that Chautauqua movement. But the ethos of it, I think, is something my parents and grandparents really subscribed to. [00:30:49] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. Coming up, we continue our conversation with Chris Davis, chairman and portfolio manager at Davis Advisors, discussing how he developed his philosophy and investment process at Davis. I’m Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. — I am Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. Chris Davis is my extra special guest. He is the chairman of Davis Advisors. In 2005, he was named Morningstar’s Portfolio Manager of the Year. He helps to oversee $20 billion in client assets, a healthy chunk of which is he and his colleagues. We briefly mentioned Buffett earlier — later on I get to ask people who their mentors were, but I have to bring this to this part of the conversation. Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger were your mentors? Is this remotely true? It just seems insane. [00:32:13] Chris Davis: Oh, it started in — I wanna say it was 1990. So — [00:32:23] Barry Ritholtz: He’s already a well-known investing rockstar at that point. [00:32:28] Chris Davis: The way it really started was with Charlie. I met Charlie long before Warren. The reason was, I was trying to sell a business. My grandfather, as I started going through his accounts and going in there on the weekends — he had a business called securities lending. And I don’t know how well you know that business — [00:32:48] Barry Ritholtz: Anytime you’re gonna short a stock, you gotta borrow it from somebody, and that’s gonna cost you a little — [00:32:52] Chris Davis: It’s gonna cost you a little margin. So my grandfather’s view was, he had a portfolio of appreciated stocks that he was never gonna sell. And he said, if somebody wants to short the stock and pay me to borrow it, fine. And the number one borrowed stock in those days was Berkshire — Berkshire Hathaway, of course, because you couldn’t borrow it anywhere, because everybody had the certificates. They weren’t — [00:33:17] Barry Ritholtz: Literally had the paper certs. [00:33:19] Chris Davis: Yeah. There was very little Berkshire that was in street name. It was in individual people, and therefore you couldn’t borrow it. [00:33:25] Barry Ritholtz: It was locked away and safe. [00:33:27] Chris Davis: So he had a big holding, and he had a broker dealer — Shelby Cullom Davis was a registered broker dealer. And so he could lend out the shares and make a couple hundred basis points a year extra return on top of the Berkshire return. So that’s how he started in the securities lending business. But gradually, the guy who was doing it for him and administering it said, well, we can also help — we’ve got all these people that wanna short all sorts of different securities, and we can act as what was called a broker finder. We’ll go out and find the securities for these people to short, and we’ll make a little spread as they go through. Well, this business grew and grew and grew, and soon there were 17 employees in the securities lending business. And it was a big operation. And my grandfather by then was probably in his eighties and was nervous, because as I went through the list of counterparties with him, there were firms we had never heard of. There was this one called LTCM. And I said, what is this LTCM? We’ve got, like, $500, $800 million lent out to them. “Oh, that’s Long-Term Capital Management.” So we talked about it. He said, yeah, I think we gotta get rid of this thing. [00:34:58] Barry Ritholtz: So wait, did he hold on to that business, or did they spin it — [00:35:01] Chris Davis: So I said to him, we gotta get rid of this thing. And he said, fine, well, see if you can find somebody to take it over, because we do have 17 employees, and they made their careers here. We’re not gonna fire everybody. And so we started calling around, and I thought, what characteristics do we need? We need a lot of excess capital, ideally an appreciated portfolio of securities, a sort of AAA type balance sheet, and somebody that can understand it. So I thought, well, Berkshire. So a wonderful friend in those days named Bob Lenzner, who was a reporter at Forbes — [00:35:42] Barry Ritholtz: I recall — I had lunch with him at, I wanna say, the Harvard Club. I think he was an alum. Is that right? [00:35:49] Chris Davis: Could have been his kids. Our kids were — [00:35:51] Barry Ritholtz: I could be wrong, but — [00:35:52] Chris Davis: Our kids were in the same elementary school. And I got to know him just watching basketball games with third graders or something. And he mentioned casually in conversation that he had met this brilliant guy, Charlie Munger. And I said, well, I know who Charlie is, but I’m dying to meet him. And so Bob arranged for us to have breakfast. Charlie was in New York, and I went down — it was at the Millennium Hotel down by the World Trade Center. And I sat down and introduced myself: Mr. Munger, pleased to meet you, I’m Chris Davis. And I said, I’m working with my grandfather at Shelby Cullom Davis & Company, and have I got a business for you. And I pitched our securities lending business, and Charlie put up his hand after about four minutes, and he said, “I have no intention of buying a business run by seven guys named Vinny and Barry.” It was the perfect description. I mean, we had Vinny, Tony, Mikey, Nicky. And so we did end up finding a buyer eventually, just not Berkshire. And it wasn’t really a buyer — we just did a sort of earn-out. We just wanted everybody to have jobs. And so they all got a job at a broker dealer. [00:37:14] Barry Ritholtz: So beyond the pitch to Munger, how did your relationship — [00:37:17] Chris Davis: Go? Well, so the pitch ended in four and a half minutes. And so I said, well, I’m sorry I wasted your time. And I got up to leave, and he said, where are you going? And I said, well — just don’t leave, I’m only just getting to know you. I’m not interested in your business, but tell me about you. And we got talking about a few things. But what really happened was, I started listening. And as you can tell, I like to talk — around Charlie, I just listened as much as I could. And we sat at that table till lunchtime. And Charlie said, I have to go to a lunch, but if you find yourself in Los Angeles, give me a call and I’ll make time for you. And so, of course, I started going to Los Angeles pretty regularly. And so that was a huge gift in my life. It was a gift professionally, but thank God it was a gift personally. He helped me through some hard times in my personal life. He was just a wonderful mentor in every dimension. [00:38:23] Barry Ritholtz: So there are a lot of things that all of us have learned from Warren and Charlie — through the letters, through the annual meetings, through all sorts of stuff. I’m curious, what did you learn from Charlie that none of us can find in the public materials? [00:38:46] Chris Davis: Well — [00:38:48] Barry Ritholtz: Good question. [00:38:49] Chris Davis: Right. I think, most deeply, I learned about integrity in the traditional sense, meaning wholeness. Charlie was a whole person. The alignment — what he thought, what he said, what he did — they were all the same thing. His sense of his own code of being was so disciplined, but was filled with this — his reputation as a curmudgeon may have been cultivated. I never saw it. He was a truth speaker, but he was also, in a very profound way, a very loving person — very cheerful, very committed, profoundly loyal. So I used to joke that if I did a Venn diagram of the things I admire about my father and the things I admire about Charlie Munger, there’s surprisingly little overlap. They were both frugal. But Charlie was an incredibly broad thinker. My father was just single-minded about investing. Charlie was curious about everything. Charlie was very committed to relationship, continuity, breadth. My father is very specialized, very narrow. My father is incredibly physically fit and remains, to this day, very vigorous. Charlie was willfully sedentary. My father is very nomadic. And Charlie went to the same island in Minnesota and lived in the same house his whole life. He was very much a creature of habit. And so they were very different that way. [00:40:46] Barry Ritholtz: Just imagine if Charlie exercised, how much longer he could have lived. [00:40:50] Chris Davis: I don’t know, 99 and three quarters is pretty good. That’s one of the things he said — he said, I’m not sure I see the alignment. [00:40:58] Barry Ritholtz: So let’s talk a little bit about the returns and about the philosophy. Back of the envelope, I calculated Davis Advisors has been compounding shareholder wealth at greater than 10% annually since 1969. Does that sound remotely accurate? [00:41:17] Chris Davis: That sounds right. We’re still ahead of the market from the beginning. [00:41:21] Barry Ritholtz: Starting out in 1969 — early days of a horrific bear market. You have managed money through — well, you were in grad school, but your dad — during the ’87 crash, you’re involved during the dot-com implosion, during the financial crisis, during the pandemic. I mean, you have seen lots and lots of cycles across all of these decades and all of these different environments. What key investment principles stand out as absolutely core, non-negotiable — this is the heart of what we do? [00:41:58] Chris Davis: Well, the entire investment process boils down to these two questions: what sort of businesses do we wanna own, and how much do we pay for them? I should say, before I go on, that the interplay between those two is part of the nuance of investing. You may own a slightly lower quality business because the price is so extreme. But the characteristics that we look for in every business have to do with durability. Because we buy businesses thinking our goal is to own them forever. Our goal is for the return to be driven by the earnings yield on the business over time, not by some change in the valuation and finding an exit strategy. And so those characteristics are exactly the characteristics you would look for if I said, you’ve gotta put a business away for your kids or your grandkids. So the nature of the business, the returns on capital, the competitive moats, the nature of the balance sheet, the risk — and very importantly, the character of the people running it. We spend a lot of time on management evaluation. In this land of AI — I just came back from the Markel annual meeting — character will not show up efficiently, I don’t think, in the AI world. And boy does it matter when you think about navigating an unpredictable future — just that ability to be resilient, to adapt, but always to be investing the money as if it’s your own. And there are CEOs that do that. So that’s the nature of the business. And then the valuation discipline is the securities analysis part of what we do. If the first part is business research, then this is the securities analysis. It’s adjusting the income statement — that’s where the accounting training comes in. It’s understanding the incremental returns on capital, and it’s adjusting the balance sheet, every account on the balance sheet, because of course GAAP earnings is a convention, but it may or may not reflect reality. So you put those two things together and we build an IRR, an internal rate of return forecast. We work on this concept of owner earnings in each business. And then we focus on the quality and the durability of the business. [00:44:26] Barry Ritholtz: I can’t help but point out that you talk about buying or owning businesses, not buying stocks. That seems to be a very fundamental distinction compared to most fund managers. [00:44:42] Chris Davis: It’s so profoundly important. We view ourselves as business owners. We view the management as our partners in most cases. We view the signs of short-termism as dangerous. It’s one of the reasons we feel that the activist movement has completely lost the thread and should be greatly resisted — whereas it was very useful when it started. We could talk about that later. But absolutely, we’re owning businesses, and we’re trying to own businesses that are compounding machines. I watched what it meant for my grandfather to own businesses for 20, 30, 40 years. I look at our own portfolio. I look at companies like American Express or Wells Fargo or JP Morgan in the financial world. I look more recently at companies like Amazon, Texas Instruments. You look at what a business can compound over 20, 30 years. I mentioned Markel — when I first met the now-CEO of Markel, we met in Omaha at the Orpheum Theater at a Berkshire annual meeting in, like, 1990. The stock was at like 19 or 20, and it’s at 2000 now. And by the way, they have an activist idiotically saying they should split up the company. The company’s doing fine. It’s a company that is being built to last. And the idea of getting a quick sugar fix — because you can sell some part to private equity at a premium — that doesn’t serve capitalism, and it really won’t serve the long-term shareholders of that business. [00:46:17] Barry Ritholtz: You mentioned a number of financials in that list. I’m kind of curious, because financials have had some pretty good years. They’ve had some pretty rough years. Obviously the financial crisis was devastating. Although my pet theory about JP Morgan Chase is, when they had their subprime problem, it predated everybody by five years. And there was still a bid when they had to get out. So they got a little lucky. And they happen to have a particularly talented CEO. But this concentration of financials — I’m curious what led to it. And I’m curious about the relationship between what some people describe as high conviction investing and concentration in a particular sector like financials. [00:47:11] Chris Davis: Well, I think high conviction investing is exactly the right description. And if we end up with a focus on a particular sector, it’s not necessarily because of a view of the sector — it’s because of the individual companies. Financials is one of the most misleading sectors there is. Because to me, what creates correlation risk is when businesses are tied to the same macroeconomic variables. Financials is a massively broad category. There are financials that have risk if the wind blows in certain parts of the world; there are financials that have risk if interest rates change; financials that have risks that have to do with recession, some to capital markets — they’re all different. And I’ll give you a really powerful example. I started our financial fund, I don’t know, in something like 1990. That fund from then to today has outperformed the S&P 500. And it has outperformed the S&P 500 quite meaningfully when you compound it out. At the time we started it, I didn’t even know there was a financials index. But it was founded with this belief — and my grandfather of course specialized in financials, I started as a financials analyst — he had a phrase that he loved, which is, in financials you can find growth stocks in disguise. And he said the reason is that you have industries that are huge, where companies can grow for a long period of time by simply growing. Just this year, Progressive finally passed State Farm. Progressive has probably compounded in the high teens for 30 years. And it just became maybe the largest insurance company in personal auto. So these massive industries where you can compound for a long time without outgrowing your sector. Second advantage: the business model doesn’t really go obsolete. Making a spread on money is about the oldest business there is — maybe the second oldest. [00:49:14] Barry Ritholtz: Thank you. [00:49:16] Chris Davis: What else? It’s an industry where you have huge dispersion of outcomes, but relatively homogenous valuations. So — I mentioned Progressive. You have companies that have grown. Capital One — you look at Capital One’s growth record from 1987 to today, and yet it’s trading at nine or 10 times earnings, because it’s a financial. I’m like, it looks like a growth stock to me. It’s still run by the founder. It’s a fintech company, it’s a data science company. It’s in the top 10 of all holders of AI and machine learning patents. But it trades at 9.8 times earnings and 1.2 times book value, with a mid-teens return on equity. It seems just nuts to me, but whatever, we love it. So that’s the idea of growth stocks in disguise. And the last advantage of financials is that culture is a defining and sustainable difference. [00:50:12] Barry Ritholtz: This is a theme I have heard from so many really savvy executors — CEOs as well as investors. How do you, as an investor, wrap your arms around culture? It feels like you almost have to be in it to see it. Is it something that, as an outside investor, you get access to? How do you identify quality culture? [00:50:39] Chris Davis: Well, it’s a perfect question, but I’ll give you the punchline for the differentiation. Last year, our financial fund, which is 95% in large cap financials, outperformed the S&P financials index and the XLF, the largest financials ETF, by 1200 basis points. [00:51:01] Barry Ritholtz: Touché, right? [00:51:02] Chris Davis: It was a great year for us. But the point is, they’re in large cap financials, we’re in large cap financials. How can you get such dispersion? But the same is — [00:51:13] Barry Ritholtz: So because they own everything, and you own the better companies. [00:51:16] Chris Davis: Well, they’re very concentrated — they’re concentrated in the mega cap banks by and large, and Visa and MasterCard. But we’re fairly concentrated too. We only have 20, 25 names. And 20 or 25 names are probably 80% of the index. [00:51:33] Barry Ritholtz: Does the gap come from the stock selection or the screening out of what you don’t like? [00:51:40] Chris Davis: Well, it really goes back to the culture question. So to bring it full circle — within financials, we are looking for the companies that we feel can be compounding machines. And we’re looking for the companies where their culture creates a durable advantage. The reason culture can create an advantage in financials is because, in most cases, your cost of goods sold is an estimate. And if you have an aggressive management, they can use accounting to front-load earnings that you’ll pay the piper for — three, five, excuse me, 10 years from now. So they can look good for a long time. Whereas if you do the opposite, if you have a good culture, you’re understating the near term, but you’re building cushion for the long term. And so when the times go rough, when the tide goes out and you see who’s swimming without a bathing suit, that’s where the culture really matters. Now, you mentioned all the crises that I’ve seen over my career. I’ve seen a lot of these management teams and these companies go through crises, and you see who’s wearing a bathing suit. So we just went through an interest rate crisis, right? [00:52:55] Barry Ritholtz: 2022, 500 basis points. [00:52:57] Chris Davis: And we used to get questions from clients all the time: why don’t you own First Republic? In October, my colleague Pierce Crosby wrote a research report — just internal, just for himself — saying he’s just startled by the amount of risk Silicon Valley and First Republic are taking. He said it’s sort of amazing. Look at the duration on their assets. They’re assuming their liabilities, their deposits, are gonna be with them for 8, 10, 12 years, and that they’re uncorrelated. So we used to get questions, why don’t you own them? They’ve had such great growth records. And our view was, well, it’s been a mistake not to own them in the sense that they’ve outperformed, but we are not gonna own the companies that are optimized to the upcycle. And that’s a different culture. They had a growth culture, but it blew them up. And so we instead looked at companies like — well, JP Morgan was an outstanding example. Wells Fargo, Capital One — where they didn’t reach for the easy money of taking that extra risk on the interest rates. They could have. Jamie Dimon stood up at an analyst meeting and said, I could add a billion or $2 billion to my profits with a phone call, and I’m not gonna do it — [00:54:13] Barry Ritholtz: Because of the risk. [00:54:14] Chris Davis: Because of the risk. He said, I could put out my money for five, seven years, and he didn’t do it. So you could see that. So some of it’s quantitative. You identify culture by accounting choices. Look at how accident year reserves develop at insurance companies. Look at how credit losses develop. Look at the duration in the asset portfolio of a bank. Look at the mark-to-market risks that an investment bank is taking, and so on. So you can identify culture quantitatively in financials — that’s a big advantage. But then the next part is qualitative. And there, I think Warren put it best: in a complex financial, the CEO has to be the chief risk officer. You can have somebody with that title, but if the CEO doesn’t understand the nature and the complexity of the risks, they should not be the CEO of a financial company. [00:55:03] Barry Ritholtz: So not only am I hearing a lot of Warren’s voice in things you say, I’m also hearing a lot of similar companies — Coca-Cola, Amex, Wells Fargo. Coincidence? [00:55:18] Chris Davis: Well, it would be strange if we ended up different. Of course, I always like it when we owned it first. So for example, we were, I think, the largest shareholder of General Re before Berkshire bought it. And by the way, our research was not so good on that one. [00:56:00] Barry Ritholtz: Oh, really? Not his favorite pick, over the — [00:56:01] Chris Davis: As you saw subsequently, Gen Re did not perform very well for many years. And I think Warren would say — I think he has said publicly, I won’t put words in his mouth — I’ll put it this way: well, I’ll tell you what. Charlie came to visit us, and we have a wall of mistakes where we frame the stock certificate — [00:56:08] Barry Ritholtz: A good temple of — yes, is that what that is? [00:56:10] Chris Davis: And Charlie was looking through it, and he said, where the hell’s your Gen Re? And I said, Gen Re wasn’t a mistake. We got Berkshire stock for Gen Re. That was fantastic. [00:56:21] Barry Ritholtz: Did you have anything to do with the transaction? Or they just went out and bought it? And you happen to be a big holder? [00:56:26] Chris Davis: No. We were big GEICO shareholders, so — no, it was, and we overlapped in Amex, but no, I mean, we’re much more diversified. We never owned Apple. There’s huge differences. I mean, starting with the fact that Warren has outperformed all investment advisors for 50 years. But you’d be crazy not to study when Warren owns something, or to study Berkshire itself. [00:57:00] Barry Ritholtz: That makes a lot of sense. There’s another distinction between the two of you. You say that you are neither deep value nor go-go growth. So what does that leave you? Growth at a reasonable price, somewhere, something adjacent — [00:57:20] Chris Davis: We love growth at a reasonable price. Because what are the other — [00:57:23] Barry Ritholtz: Who doesn’t want growth — [00:57:23] Chris Davis: Growth at unreasonable prices, that turns — [00:57:26] Barry Ritholtz: Out, or unreasonable — [00:57:27] Chris Davis: Non-growth at silly prices. [00:57:28] Barry Ritholtz: Yeah. Growth at a — [00:57:29] Chris Davis: Reasonable price. I think what we would say is, it’s obvious to us that growth is a component of value, right? [00:57:36] Barry Ritholtz: Growth is a component of value. So take — [00:57:39] Chris Davis: A company that grows profitably is more valuable than one that doesn’t grow, right? Think of the business. A business that grows profitably is more valuable. A business that can redeploy its capital at high incremental rates of return is way more valuable than one that can’t, or one that’s capital intensive and shrinking and so on. So growth is a component of value. And the difference between us and a typical growth manager is, we tend to believe more deeply, based on experience, that high rates of growth attract competition. Competition lowers returns. And so we believe in capitalism, and we believe that growth is hard, and maintaining growth is hard. So we tend to be more skeptical than the average go-go growth investor, but we tend to be more open to paying a fair price for a company that can grow profitably than the typical value investor. So much of our research is about the durability of the growth, the competitive advantages that a business has. So our portfolio currently trades in aggregate — if you took all of our companies — at something like 14 times earnings. The market as a whole is at 20 or 21. The value index is at 19 times. And yet we have a portfolio of companies that has grown their earnings over the last five years something like 14% a year. So we feel we have what my dad used to call the value investor’s dream. [00:59:21] Barry Ritholtz: Low cost, fast growth. [00:59:22] Chris Davis: Low valuation, and durable, sustainable growth. [00:59:26] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. So before we jump too deep into the current state of affairs, I have to ask you about a quote of yours that I really like: “As human beings, we don’t welcome fear and panic, but as investors, we welcome the bargain prices that those emotions tend to produce.” Discuss. [00:59:50] Chris Davis: Well, obviously the market is, of course, a voting machine in the short term — it reflects psychology — and in the long term, a weighing machine. And that — [01:00:01] Barry Ritholtz: Hold on. That’s a great quote. I’m gonna write that down. [01:00:06] Chris Davis: And so psychology helps shape prices. And what we find is that there’s always risk. What varies is people’s perception of it. And I think today we’re in a time when people are underestimating risks, and therefore prices are generally high. It’s one of the reasons I find it so amazing that our portfolio is trading at 14 times earnings. The market scares me at 21, 22 times earnings, but our portfolio feels like it’s below long-time averages. So I feel this disconnect where I’m simultaneously pessimistic about the market because of the euphoria — there’s no skepticism, there’s no fear in prices — and at the same time, feel very comfortable with our portfolio. [01:01:03] Barry Ritholtz: So let me push back a little bit, just to hear your reaction. We keep hearing artificial intelligence and Nvidia and all the semis being compared to the dot-com era. And every time I hear that — aside from the fact that many of those companies, forget profits, didn’t even have revenues, and this is a giant-revenue, giant-profit era. Markets today are trading at 20, 22 times. We finished the nineties at 32 times. Theoretically, there’s a ton of upside from here, especially if earnings growth continues. Is it the contrarian take that, hey, this market could go another five or 10 years before things get really stupid? [01:01:54] Chris Davis: Well, what I’d say is, as I look out there, I see two types of end investor. One is this sort of belief that we’re on a plateau of permanent prosperity. This time is different — [01:02:07] Barry Ritholtz: A permanently high plateau. Yes. [01:02:10] Chris Davis: Yes. And they are all in on the momentum trade, which has worked so well. Now, I believe that momentum investing, even though it’s worked so well, to me is crazy, because it’s not common sense. [01:02:30] Barry Ritholtz: It works until it stops. [01:02:32] Chris Davis: It works until it stops. And when it stops, you really feel foolish that the fact that you were paying an ever higher price, you thought, was a good thing. [01:02:40] Barry Ritholtz: Why does price matter? If it’s going up, buy it; if it stops going up, sell. [01:02:45] Chris Davis: Exactly. And so that’s one group of investors, and they’re taking a lot of risk, because they tend to be in the highest multiple parts of the market, and the parts of the market where there is the most presumption that high margins and high growth rates are sustainable — and the data is over. I think fewer than 3% of companies can maintain a growth rate in revenue of 20% for more than a decade. Like, fewer than 3%. [01:03:17] Barry Ritholtz: I mean, that’s a huge growth rate for a long — [01:03:19] Chris Davis: Period of time. And there are a lot of valuations today that have that baked in. You get these analyst reports, and there’s even fewer — less than, I think it’s five-tenths of 1%, but you could check me, it might be three-tenths — but it’s a fraction of a percent that are able to maintain 50% margins for more than a decade. Those are very high margins. But again, they’re in a lot of models right now. So I think there’s risk on that. Now, the other side of people taking risk are the ones that are huddled in cash saying it’s the end of the world. Everything that’s happening — AI’s gonna swallow our children, the world is falling apart, everything that’s happening in Washington — and they’re sitting in cash, which — [01:04:05] Barry Ritholtz: Is risky as well. [01:04:06] Chris Davis: Really risky. I mean, just since 2000, the purchasing power of a dollar is down something like 55%. In my grandmother’s lifetime, I think the purchasing power of a dollar fell like 94, 95%. [01:04:21] Barry Ritholtz: They’re taking — what is it, $7 over 90 years. [01:04:24] Chris Davis: Right. So I think these huge crowded sides of the market — the people sitting in cash, and the people assuming the extreme growth — are both taking a lot of risk. [01:04:34] Barry Ritholtz: That’s a terrible barbell you’ve just described. The extremes are either inflation’s gonna kill them, or speculation is gonna get them. [01:04:42] Chris Davis: Yeah. And where we land in the middle is with this idea that there are durable, overlooked businesses right now. As I say, we have a portfolio of 25 companies trading at an aggregate of 14 and a half times. By the way, that includes owning some Amazon, it includes owning some Google, but also owning some Capital One, owning some Tyson Foods, some MGM — [01:05:09] Barry Ritholtz: Which portfolio is this? [01:05:10] Chris Davis: This is our flagship portfolio. So this is the Davis New York Venture Fund. But really, the way people are finding us increasingly — 10 years ago, Barry, we launched our ETFs. We were alone for nine years. We are the only true active manager running a value ETF. I think our value ETF, which is called DUSA, is the number one active-for-passive value ETF for three years. But nobody really cares. That’s all right. [01:05:40] Barry Ritholtz: Although the past year or two we have seen a lot of flows — hey, most of the money is going to the passive indexes, but the third or quarter that’s not going there is going active. [01:05:54] Chris Davis: Exactly. So they’re finding our way. And I’m proud that we are so early. I don’t mind being early. But what I’d say is, the optimistic case you lay out — I think the three elements of change in the civilization that are increasing risk today are: we certainly have a change in the monetary world order. You and I had spent our entire careers in a world of falling interest rates approaching zero, falling inflation, all of the things that fed into that — low wage pressure, de-unionization, globalization. All of that has stunningly and permanently, I believe, come to an end. We are in a state where we are printing so much money relative to what the interest rates are. I think there’s a lot of risk, but certainly we’re not going back to zero, probably, ever again. That was a once-in-history phenomenon, free money. The second big change is geopolitics. There’s no question that for our entire career, we were in a world of globalization. We were in a world of functional peace. We were in a world of stability. We were in a world where the wall fell and markets doubled. All of those things have also absolutely come to an end, and that increases risk. So those first two things increase risk. And what’s the third? AI. There’s this massive technological change that increases risk — it increases the risk of all different types of businesses, and it increases opportunity, but it increases risk. So when you have three fundamental shifts going on, all of which have unpredictable outcomes, and yet you have valuations — not at all-time highs, but elevated — certainly relative to the direction of travel of interest rates over time, then I’d say, I like where we are: with our 14 yield, solid growth rate in the business, durability, AI as a lens, globalization as a lens, inflation as a lens. Put those things together, we sit with 25 companies with these great characteristics, in our ETF or in our funds or SMA, or however the advisor finds us. [01:08:13] Barry Ritholtz: Really interesting. Coming up, we continue our conversation with Chris Davis, portfolio manager at Davis Advisors, discussing the current market environment. I’m Barry Ritholtz, you are listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. — I am Barry Ritholtz, you’re listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. Chris Davis is my extra special guest. He is the chairman and portfolio manager of Davis Advisors. So I’m glad you mentioned artificial intelligence as one of those three big shifts that are taking place. How do you, as an analyst and a fund manager, separate what is a transformative technology — and potentially a transformative source of value creation — from just the rampant speculative excess that rears its head on a regular basis? [01:09:27] Chris Davis: Well, what we’re seeing is Amara’s Law in full bloom. And Amara’s Law states that transformative technologies are overestimated in the short term and underestimated in the long term. We’re in the overestimation, hype phase. And what I would say we do is, we recognize it as a transformative technology — that is absolutely a baseline assumption. Our other baseline assumption at this stage is that we don’t see it as winner-take-all. So we see it a little bit more like railroads, or the telephone, or electricity, where the users maybe end up making more money than the builders. And so we’ll talk about hedging that bet, but we do think it increases the risk environment. It increases the risk of obsolescence in certain businesses. So we start with this idea that it’s real. Then what we do is, as we do our research, we found every company we look at falls into one of five categories. There’s the emerging winners — that’s where all the heat is, all the speculation. And there’s real danger. You and I started very early talking about Cisco. Remember, the three obvious winners of the internet were AOL, Yahoo, and Cisco. Two don’t exist, and one’s a fraction of what it was. And so picking the emerging winners in the early hype phase is risky. But we’d say, if you wanna look in that space, focus on the businesses that have a real shot at being emerging winners but do not have to constantly raise capital — have proven business models, proven leaders, and businesses that are accretive by the investments that they’re making, so that they earn more money by making these investments, even if it takes longer than — [01:11:11] Barry Ritholtz: So not the hyperscalers. [01:11:13] Chris Davis: Not the hyperscalers. So for us, that’s where we’ve sat with a little bit of Google. We still have Meta and Amazon. We’ve trimmed the first two because they were huge holdings for us — we bought them when they were so out of favor. But if you’re gonna play in the emerging winners — that’s the first. The second category is, okay, who are the enablers of this technology? That’s the picks-and-shovels mindset. They’re the ones that are gonna benefit from the spending wave, but will not be penalized if the return on the spending is very low. [01:11:45] Barry Ritholtz: Semiconductors. [01:11:46] Chris Davis: So yeah, I would say there, for us, it’s been analog chips — Texas Instruments. It’s been semiconductor capital equipment. We are a big shareholder of Samsung, which did nothing, nothing, nothing, and then exploded fourfold in a year. [01:12:00] Barry Ritholtz: They’re driving the entire inquiry of returns. [01:12:05] Chris Davis: It’s amazing. So, but again, we viewed those as enablers. But in enablers, I would also include things like natural gas and copper. They are big, big beneficiaries. So we own Coterra, which is now Devon, ConocoPhillips, Tourmaline — our focus is on natural gas and copper. So those are the enablers. Then the users, who are gonna be the beneficiaries. Well, you’ve gotta think — financials is a great example. Anything where you have a big amount of laptop class workers. It’s what Elon called the laptop class. It’s likely that AI will do to the laptop class what globalization did to blue collar workers. [01:12:49] Barry Ritholtz: Meaning very much hollow it out. [01:12:51] Chris Davis: Hollow it out. The best will still have work, the best will be more valuable, they’ll be more productive. But there’s gonna be a lot of unemployed second-year lawyers and things like that. And so healthcare — claims processing, compliance functions, things like that. So there we focus on the banks that have the scale, the tech stack, and the management to do it. So Capital One, number one. I’d keep Wells Fargo on that list. I think US Bank crosses that chasm. So those, but also — [01:13:25] Barry Ritholtz: JP Morgan Chase is part of the group. [01:13:26] Chris Davis: JP Morgan Chase has done such a great job, but the valuation has gotten — [01:13:30] Barry Ritholtz: So high. And how do you put the Amexes and the MasterCard, Visas of the world? [01:13:33] Chris Davis: We don’t own Visa or MasterCard. And we have a very small position in Amex. And essentially the reason is, we just think that is an area where there is a big spread. They may be on the other side, but boy, there are a lot of people — especially merchants — that would like to figure out some way to bypass that. [01:13:52] Barry Ritholtz: That 3% is a big number. [01:13:55] Chris Davis: A big number. [01:13:56] Barry Ritholtz: This is the first time in my lifetime I have started noticing cash and credit card prices on restaurant menus. This was never a thing before. [01:14:06] Chris Davis: No, and you really see it when you travel. And again, those are so highly valued — at 30 times earnings for Visa. It just seems to us there’s too much risk there. I’ll own the Capital One at nine times. So those are the users. Then the next category is what Jeff Bezos — we call them the indifferent, or the protected. Jeff Bezos, when he said, people ask me what’s gonna change; they all ask me — what’s not gonna change? That’s a very important question. So there, Tyson Foods. Chicken’s not gonna change, right? [01:14:38] Barry Ritholtz: And wait — chickens aren’t gonna lose their jobs to AI. [01:14:40] Chris Davis: Chickens are in good shape. But here you have to be careful, because you don’t have high growth rates, so you don’t wanna overpay, and they’re cyclical businesses, so you don’t wanna pay at the top of a cycle. So Tyson, I think, has a low multiple on cyclically depressed earnings. What else? MGM — I think owning 50% of the Las Vegas strip, 20 or 30% of Macau, and a hundred percent of the only legal gambling in Japan, in Osaka, when it opens in 2029 — that’s very valuable. I don’t think that gets disintermediated by AI. So call those the protected, the what-won’t-change. The last category is the Walking Dead. And there, you mentioned Visa and MasterCard — I don’t know, title insurance, I don’t know. There are all sorts of things where it is really amazing how much money is made for something that you should be able to get around. We’ve seen some of the pressure in the SaaS companies. And so that’s the lens that we look at for all of our companies. We put them through this lens of this fast-changing world. We wanna stay nimble. And Barry, one of the things I think is really important is, I think this is a world where taking liquidity risk is really dangerous, because there’s so much flux. So I think that’s some of the pressure we’re seeing in private equity, private credit. People are saying, why did I lock up my money for — [01:15:59] Barry Ritholtz: Seven years? [01:16:00] Chris Davis: For seven years? If you’re lucky. It’s gonna be longer, I think. So I think the wheels are coming off that. And indexes — remember Kodak? You ready for a number? 10 million digital cameras had been sold when Kodak was still in the top third of the S&P 500. That’s amazing. [01:16:18] Barry Ritholtz: Isn’t — [01:16:18] Chris Davis: That amazing? It’s like, 10 million people knew they would never buy a roll of film again. It was dead. And so the advantage — when Japan peaked in the eighties, every active manager in international investing who was underweight Japan outperformed for the next 10 years just by saying, oh, Japan’s going down, I’m out. And so the index got killed, because it had to sort of go down with the ship. So I think nimbleness, liquidity, flexibility, and this sort of research lens are gonna actually become more valuable. So I think we could see some of the time-tested things that worked in the last decade — dividend darlings, momentum, private equity, indexing — I think all of those things could be challenged given this fast-changing world. [01:17:05] Barry Ritholtz: I’m glad you brought up a few things there, because when you look at some of the fallout from low-cost indexing — the Vanguard effect, BlackRock, whatever you wanna call it — they have all put the fund industry under a lot of pressure. There’s fee compression. There’s been a move to not just indexing, but to ETFs generally. So when your own business — you’re looking at businesses with moats, businesses with defendable processes, and a good culture. You are running a business with a lot of employees and a lot of clients. How do you respond to this external pressure? How do you manage, not the investments, but the business of investing, when it’s just becoming more competitive and more challenging than ever? [01:17:58] Chris Davis: Well, we’re lucky, because, one, we charge low fees. If you charge two and 20 — [01:18:09] Barry Ritholtz: If only I could. [01:18:10] Chris Davis: I know, I know — [01:18:11] Barry Ritholtz: I mean, intellectually, I have a problem with that. But part of me is like, nice work if you can get it. [01:18:18] Chris Davis: I know. I spoke to a guy that charged two and 20 years ago, and I said, why two and 20? What’s the business model? He said, I can’t get three and 30. So that’s hilarious. We’ve always just run with this idea — Charlie once said to me, Charlie Munger: what’s wrong with giving people a bargain? [01:18:36] Barry Ritholtz: Or at least a fair price. [01:18:37] Chris Davis: And it makes it easier for you to outperform over time. So, one, I feel — two, we’re a frugal place. I work with seven colleagues. We’ve been together on average 20 years, 25 years average experience. And we would do this with no outside money, because of the inside money. So we run it with what I would call a real family office mindset, with our own money alongside, in a very low cost operation. And the last thing, Barry, is, we are in a lasting game. What I can tell you is, if 90% of the market was passive, the remaining 10% of active would make a fortune. [01:19:19] Barry Ritholtz: I’ve said that exact thing. If indexing is taking over, doesn’t that create all sorts of inefficiencies for a savvy active manager? [01:19:29] Chris Davis: Absolutely. And I don’t think it’s a coincidence that we started outperforming. I mean, we’ve outperformed the value index for all periods, but we lagged the S&P in this momentum market — and that changed about four years ago, and nobody’s talking about it. [01:19:45] Barry Ritholtz: Coming out of the pandemic. [01:19:46] Chris Davis: Basically, yeah, we’ve been grinding an advantage over the S&P for the last three, three and a half years. And this is with less than half the weight in technology that the index has. So we are underweight the hottest sector, but yet we’ve been grinding out an advantage for three or four years. Why? And I think it’s just because there’s way more money indexed than is thought of. There’s way more money in momentum than is thought, and when I say there’s more in indexing, it’s because there’s so much closet indexing. So I don’t think it’s impossible that we’re already at 70% functionally indexed. Really? So that will really help us. So we’re in a lasting game, we’ve got the balance sheet to do it, and we’re gonna be on the other side. [01:20:33] Barry Ritholtz: That’s really fascinating. You mentioned you guys would just do this without outside money, but let’s put some flesh on those bones. Davis Advisors, the company, the family foundation, you and your partners, the employees — you collectively have more than a few billion dollars in the funds. So you are not only aligned with your clients. I almost feel like “skin in the game” has become a cliche. But the question I want to ask is, being invested that way alongside the clients, how does that affect your decision-making process? And what does that do when you are going through one of those periodic crises that we’ve seen so much over the past 25 years — dot-coms, GFC, pandemic? How does having skin in the game affect your decisions? [01:21:29] Chris Davis: Well, I think it makes us much more rational and much more long term. I once had a colleague that we had to part ways with, because he said that he was so unimpressed by things like momentum, even if they worked. He said, look, if I had a blind monkey in my office pointing to the newspaper every day at a stock, and every single day whatever stock it pointed to went up — he said, you could watch that monkey for six months, you could watch it for a year, you could watch it for two years, and you still wouldn’t invest with the monkey. And I said, of course I wouldn’t. It’s a blind monkey. This is my money, this is my client’s life savings. You think I’m gonna say, oh, the blind monkey pointed at the paper? So when we are in an environment where the market is on a tear and people are saying, oh, you’re dinosaurs — we’re able to hold our discipline. In 2007, our financial fund had lagged most other financial funds, because we were underweighted in real estate, and we didn’t own any Fannie, we didn’t own any Freddie, we didn’t own any Countrywide, we didn’t own Bear Stearns, we didn’t own WaMu. And people would say, what, you’re like a dinosaur? And it’s because it’s our money. And so we don’t mind if it takes a while for that weighing machine to work. We look at every year — did the companies get stronger? Did they get heavier, did they get more valuable? And if so, we view our research as working. And sometimes the stocks don’t go up, sometimes they do, but we’re focused on the businesses. [01:23:07] Barry Ritholtz: On the process, and not just what’s going up that day. The blind monkey reminds me of a fascinating quote from Ken French of Dartmouth. Michael Mauboussin has written a lot about the separation between skill and luck. And French, of Fama-French, had said, it’s very challenging to tell the difference between skill and luck with fund managers. And to really have a data set where you can make an informed decision takes about 20 years. So if you’re gonna wait for that blind monkey, you gotta wait 20 years. And you’re starting out with a blind monkey. I think we have to assume that it’s luck and not skill. [01:23:51] Chris Davis: Well, and look, Barry, your clients come to you — you could say it’s because of your performance, and performance matters. But — [01:24:00] Barry Ritholtz: I don’t think my clients come to — [01:24:01] Chris Davis: Well, what I was gonna say is, what really matters is trust, right? And conviction. And so one of the things — we have clients that say, hey, you went through a period of underperformance, you were out of sync with the market, we weren’t worried. You were building wealth for us every year. We don’t care, oh, this index went here, or the index went there. We’re with you because we have conviction that you’ll get us to our retirement, you’ll get us to our kids’ college funding, you’ll help us achieve our goals. And maintaining that is something you do with your own money. You don’t chase the hot dot. But if you are an investment manager and all of your value comes from the assets under management, you have to chase the hot dot. So trust is an undervalued part of the promise and the value that an investment manager can give to their clients. If your clients trust you, they will get a better return even if you underperform an index — if their trust is able to keep them invested through the ups and downs. [01:25:02] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really fascinating. All right, last question before I get to my favorites that I ask all my guests. What do you think investors are not generally talking about, thinking about, but perhaps should be? Could be a topic, a geography, an asset class. What important issue is kind of getting overlooked these days? [01:25:27] Chris Davis: Well, I think these three big transitions in the economy are going to turn a lot of what’s become conventional wisdom about investing upside down for a while. So I think — what hasn’t worked? Active management hasn’t worked. Value, price discipline hasn’t worked. What has worked? Oh, alternatives, illiquidity, that’s been great. What has worked that I think is dangerous? Dividend aristocrats. [01:26:07] Barry Ritholtz: You think dividend aristocrats are dangerous because — [01:26:10] Chris Davis: Because they’re looking in the rearview mirror, and they’re not factoring in these big three changes that we talked about. [01:26:17] Barry Ritholtz: Well, isn’t that the problem with all models? [01:26:20] Chris Davis: Kodak was a dividend aristocrat. Xerox was a dividend aristocrat. Polaroid was a dividend aristocrat. And that’s fine, unless there is systemic change. And when you have a big change like you had coming out of the seventies, and the change into the eighties, nineties — you have these big changes, and then everything that worked, everything that helped you survive the crash and the depression — in 1948 you could say, I’m not greedy, I just wanna own bonds, stocks are too dangerous — and you are wiped out in a generation, and bonds became certificates of confiscation. So I think people are underestimating how much these conventional strategies — alternatives, the backward-looking models, including even momentum, indexing versus active. And I would even maybe add international. International had underperformed for so long, and — [01:27:18] Barry Ritholtz: Just the past two years starting to look pretty good. [01:27:20] Chris Davis: Just starting to look pretty good. [01:27:22] Barry Ritholtz: And so you like international? [01:27:23] Chris Davis: I like international. We run an international ETF, DINT, and it’s just like us, it’s all stock picking. It’s run by my partner Danton. In our family, we always keep probably 15, 20% of assets in international. And that looked really stupid until two years ago, and it’s looking a little better. So I think those conventional things are likely to turn upside down. [01:27:47] Barry Ritholtz: What’s the old joke? Being diversified means there’s always something to apologize for in your portfolio. That’s so true. All right, so let me jump to my favorite questions I ask all my guests, even though I would love to stay here and keep you chatting for another three hours. I know you have places to go and people to see. The first question I always ask — I kind of know the answer, but I’m gonna give you another swing at it. Who were your mentors who helped shape your career? And I kind of see four people already. [01:28:22] Chris Davis: Well, you certainly got my dad, my grandfather, and Charlie. I think if I was gonna add another one, I would add Tom Gayner, the CEO of Markel. I just think — that sort of principled stewardship leadership, that servant leadership, a company that is built with an enormous durability and culture of stewardship in mind. We’ve served on boards together. He’s helped me through difficult times. I’ve done my best to help him through difficult times. It’s a great thing to go through life surrounded by people you admire. And of course, I get to work with people I admire. And that’s a big plus. [01:29:00] Barry Ritholtz: Really, really interesting. Let’s talk about — I know you’re a fellow reader. What are some of your favorite books? What are you reading currently? [01:29:10] Chris Davis: Well, I have too many favorite books to list, but I’ll give you three. I was, by the — [01:29:14] Barry Ritholtz: By the way, people always tell me, oh, that’s my favorite question. I’m always looking for something new. [01:29:18] Chris Davis: Well, I’ll give you the most recent one I read that I think is a good antidote to the AI phenomenon, or the AI hysteria, or the AI obsession — that’s a better word. It’s a book called “Alchemy.” The author is Rory Sutherland. I think that’s a very useful book to read right now. [01:29:40] Barry Ritholtz: On marketing and advertising. [01:29:43] Chris Davis: It’s really on the ways in which we maybe fetishize, if I said that right, rationality. When you look at human behavior, it’s very irrational, but it’s often irrational in predictable ways. And the more we say “what’s the rational solution to a problem” and expect people to obey that, the more we’re gonna keep getting crazy outcomes. People react to placebos, but we don’t study placebos. That’s the example he gives that I love: if you wanted to create a really spectacular competitor to Coca-Cola and you hired McKinsey, they would say, well, you should make something that tastes good, sell it a little cheaper, and make it ubiquitous. What you wouldn’t say is, make it more expensive, make it taste bad, and put it in a smaller can. And that’s Red Bull. And so there’s a lot to study in a case like that — how has that worked so well? So I think “Alchemy” is a useful one. Now, I think everybody should read, and then have their kids read, Morgan Housel’s two best books, which should be read as a single book: “The Psychology of Money” and “The Art of Spending.” They go together. I said, one is like the sequel to The Godfather — it’s Godfather Two. It’s not a different movie, it’s just — [01:31:07] Barry Ritholtz: Continuation. [01:31:09] Chris Davis: The culmination, in a way. And you — [01:31:11] Barry Ritholtz: Could skip three. [01:31:12] Chris Davis: Okay, that’s a — [01:31:13] Barry Ritholtz: My father — three just doesn’t — [01:31:15] Chris Davis: I agree. Not as good as the first two. I agree, I agree. And then for a third book — just the one that immediately comes to mind at the moment is “Americana.” It’s a book by — there are two books by the same name, I know, because Charlie had told me — [01:31:34] Barry Ritholtz: 400 years — [01:31:35] Chris Davis: Of American capitalism. [01:31:36] Barry Ritholtz: I love that book. I had him on the podcast years ago. [01:31:39] Chris Davis: Bhu Srinivasan. Yeah. [01:31:40] Barry Ritholtz: Yes. Spectacular. [01:31:41] Chris Davis: Spectacular. And it’s just really — [01:31:43] Barry Ritholtz: I think people are just so unaware of the history of American capitalism. And that book just does a fantastic job laying out the success. [01:31:54] Chris Davis: And it will help you as an investor if you think in chapters of that book. If you think about, okay, AI is unfolding — he talks about the interstate highways being built. Well, when the interstate highways were built, who made money? McDonald’s, Wendy’s. The railroads were built — who made money? It wasn’t the railroads. It was the factories, the ability to distribute. And who were the dead men walking? When the car was developed, there were 3,000 car companies. There were 371 publicly traded internet companies. That’s why picking the emerging winners in the early stages is tricky. Always hard. But think of the chapter, think of that whole arc — that’s a terrific book. [01:32:42] Barry Ritholtz: What are you streaming these days? What’s keeping you entertained — Netflix, podcasts, whatever? [01:32:48] Chris Davis: Well, anybody who knows me — I watch almost nothing. And I particularly don’t watch sports. I don’t know a lot about sports, with one exception. I love ice hockey. And I love ice hockey in part because we had a lot of family history. My mom’s family helped start the NHL and founded the Boston Bruins. [01:33:13] Barry Ritholtz: Wait, what? Your mom’s family helped start — [01:33:15] Chris Davis: The NHL, and founded the Bruins. And we owned the Bruins through my childhood. Can you imagine? My father, who’s probably been to eight hockey games in his life, has his name carved on the Stanley Cup twice, because Shelby Davis was the treasurer of the Boston Bruins. And so they won the cup twice. He got his day with the cup. But one of the things I love about it is that my grandfather, in explaining his love for it to me, said: every sport handicaps the athletes — you can’t use your hands, you can’t use your feet, you have to dribble, whatever it is. He said, hockey accentuates every human ability. [01:34:01] Barry Ritholtz: Between the skates and the stick — [01:34:02] Chris Davis: The skates, the stick, the pads, the oval rink, the ice. I mean, it’s just an amazing accelerator of human ability. And I guess the reason I think of it right at this moment — of course, we’re moving into the Stanley Cup playoffs, you were in the last two rounds — but it’s also because I think there’s a way to look at AI as accentuating human ability. [01:34:26] Barry Ritholtz: It’s an accelerator, for sure. [01:34:28] Chris Davis: It’s an accelerator. And what that could mean for healthcare — for healthcare inflation going negative. I mean, there are all sorts of — [01:34:35] Barry Ritholtz: We’re already finding so many new molecules. If anything’s going to find a cure to a lot of cancers, it’s gonna be this. [01:34:44] Chris Davis: And again, we have to recognize that, of course, like every technology, there are going to be negatives. There are gonna be delays. And as people get disillusioned, we could get a big swing the other way. So, equanimity. But again, going back to “Americana” and tying it to ice hockey — think of those long chapters. [01:35:03] Barry Ritholtz: All right, our final two questions. What sort of advice would you give to a recent college grad interested in a career in investing? [01:35:12] Chris Davis: Well, I would say learn everything you can about business, and ideally work in business. I met a guy down at Markel — they had their reunion just yesterday, I just flew back from Richmond yesterday. Their reunion is a great event. I recommend everybody go — just buy a share of Markel, go to the reunion. You’ll see something a lot like Berkshire. I love the value system there. But I met a guy who was an engineer at Altria, which is headquartered in Richmond. He owned a lot of Altria, he owned a lot of PMI, but he started investing for himself about 20, 25 years ago. He showed me his portfolio, including his cost basis. He’s built a wonderful record as an investor. And so, I don’t love all these kids going to Goldman Sachs and to private equity. I think private equity — it was a wonderful business to begin with, and I think it has absolutely lost the thread. [01:36:16] Barry Ritholtz: And the size. It’s just ramped up and — [01:36:18] Chris Davis: Got so big, and they’re all selling to themselves. And they’re trying to get the widows and orphans in there so that they can unload, have some final sale — just like they did with MLPs and the oil and gas partnerships in the eighties. And I really hate it. There are people within the world of private equity that I admire, that have built stunning records, but most of what’s happening at this scale is just stealing money from pension plans — [01:36:49] Barry Ritholtz: 401(k)s, endowments — [01:36:50] Chris Davis: 401(k)s, and it’s going into penthouses and Ferraris. Where are the customers’ yachts? Look at the returns over the last 10 years of the average state pension plan. Then look at the breakdown of assets, and you realize that all of the drag on their returns is alternatives. [01:37:08] Barry Ritholtz: Amazing. Final question. What do you know about the world of investing today that might have been useful back in the late eighties, early nineties, when you were first getting started? [01:37:21] Chris Davis: Every investor, if they’re honest, will say that their biggest mistakes were what they sold. And so I would say that I’ve always put all my money in the funds, and I think that’s the right alignment. But I realize now, which I didn’t realize then, that there are some real differences — which is that, in the funds, we have to really think about diversification. If each time I bought a stock in the funds I had bought it in my own name, instead of putting my money in the funds and buying, I probably would’ve just left it alone for the last 30 years, and it would’ve done very well. So — I first bought Amazon in 2002. [01:38:05] Barry Ritholtz: Good timing. [01:38:06] Chris Davis: Yeah. But I sold it in 2004. [01:38:08] Barry Ritholtz: Bad sale. [01:38:09] Chris Davis: Thank you. [01:38:10] Barry Ritholtz: I could tell you the same story with — [01:38:12] Chris Davis: Apple. [01:38:13] Barry Ritholtz: It was $15, with 13 in cash. Tripled my money. I was a genius. That was like 10,000% ago. [01:38:21] Chris Davis: I know. We did the same thing in Apple. We viewed it as a real estate play. We said, if you mark the real estate to market and add it to the cash, it was free. It was an 80-cent dollar. And then when it went to $2, we were like, whoa, too rich for our blood. So I do think that I’m trying to really learn and think about how I can improve results over the next 20 years by being more willing to hold. And what does that mean in terms of position size? What does it mean in terms of volatility? What does it mean in terms of client expectation? Would I feel the same if a client has $25,000 with us as I would if it was just my own money? Because I can absorb a bigger loss, and I can absorb more volatility. So that’s something I’m still trying to process. But God, I love the business. And, like my grandfather, if I could die at my desk at a very old age — I do have the best job on earth. I get to study success. I get to work with people I admire. I go and visit companies to focus on that elusive idea of culture. I get to meet the incredible people that have built our society, that have built businesses. And we have a country that loves to tear down the heroes. We admire the guy on the way up, but once they succeed, we somehow decide they’re a villain. I don’t think that’s constructive. I think it’s a strange thing for us to admire athletes and not admire Jeff Bezos for what he created and how it has served all of us every day. We all use Amazon and it serves us. Every day we delight in seeing our kids on Instagram or using Google Maps. And the idea that we continue to vilify our heroes, instead of judging people by their biggest accomplishment, not their weakest moment. [01:40:15] Barry Ritholtz: Chris, thank you so much for being so generous with your time. This has been absolutely delightful. We have been speaking with Chris Davis. He is the chairman and portfolio manager at Davis Advisors. If you enjoy this conversation, well, check out any of the 641 we’ve done over the past 12 years. You can find those at iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, Bloomberg, wherever you get your favorite podcast. I would be remiss if I didn’t thank the crack team that helps put these conversations together each week. Alexis Noriega is my video producer. Sean Russo is my researcher. Anna Luke is my podcast producer. I’m Barry Ritholtz. You’ve been listening to Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio. ~~~ This content, which contains security-related opinions and/or information, is provided for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon in any manner as professional advice, or an endorsement of any practices, products or services. There can be no guarantees or assurances that the views expressed here will be applicable for any particular facts or circumstances, and should not be relied upon in any manner. You should consult your own advisers as to legal, business, tax, and other related matters concerning any investment. The commentary in this “post” (including any related blog, podcasts, videos, and social media) reflects the personal opinions, viewpoints, and analyses of the Ritholtz Wealth Management employees providing such comments, and should not be regarded the views of Ritholtz Wealth Management LLC. or its respective affiliates or as a description of advisory services provided by Ritholtz Wealth Management or performance returns of any Ritholtz Wealth Management Investments client. References to any securities or digital assets, or performance data, are for illustrative purposes only and do not constitute an investment recommendation or offer to provide investment advisory services. Charts and graphs provided within are for informational purposes solely and should not be relied upon when making any investment decision. Past performance is not indicative of future results. The content speaks only as of the date indicated. Any projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, prospects, and/or opinions expressed in these materials are subject to change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by others. The Compound Media, Inc., an affiliate of Ritholtz Wealth Management, receives payment from various entities for advertisements in affiliated podcasts, blogs and emails. Inclusion of such advertisements does not constitute or imply endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation thereof, or any affiliation therewith, by the Content Creator or by Ritholtz Wealth Management or any of its employees. Investments in securities involve the risk of loss. For additional advertisement disclaimers see here: https://www.ritholtzwealth.com/advertising-disclaimers Please see disclosures here: https://ritholtzwealth.com/blog-disclosures/ Previous Post Next Post Read More Disclosures Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Get subscriber-only insights and news delivered by Barry daily. How Greed and Easy Money Corrupted Wall Street and Shook the World Economy Learn More... © 2026 The Big Picture Get subscriber-only insights and news delivered by Barry every two weeks. Subscribe
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/amazon-com-inc-amzn-good-152548036.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:25:48Z
Description: Is AMZN a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Amazon.com, Inc. on r/ValueInvesting by _The_Silent_Investor. In this article, we will...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/canadian-solar-inc-csiq-good-152511158.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:25:11Z
Description: Is CSIQ a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Canadian Solar Inc. on EAA Partners’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is KLA Corporation (KLAC) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/kla-corporation-klac-good-stock-152430716.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:24:30Z
Description: Is KLAC a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on KLA Corporation on Nikhs’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis on ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Micron Technology, Inc. (MU) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/micron-technology-inc-mu-good-152405879.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:24:05Z
Description: Is MU a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Micron Technology, Inc. on Beyond the Noise’s Substack by Cristobal Botanch. In this article...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Uber Technologies, Inc. (UBER) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/uber-technologies-inc-uber-good-152026651.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:20:26Z
Description: Is UBER a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Uber Technologies, Inc. on Rijnberk InvestInsights’s Substack by Daan | InvestInsights. In...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Zeta Global Holdings Corp. (ZETA) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/zeta-global-holdings-corp-zeta-152012267.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:20:12Z
Description: Is ZETA a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Zeta Global Holdings Corp. on Stock Reports & Analysis’s Substack by Wealthmatica. In this...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Apple Inc. (AAPL) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/apple-inc-aapl-good-stock-151957798.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T15:19:57Z
Description: Is AAPL a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Apple Inc. on X.com by @MoneyShow. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis on...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Allstate’s Comeback Is Turning Into a Profit Machine
URL: https://www.marketbeat.com/originals/allstates-comeback-is-turning-into-a-profit-machine/?utm_source=yahoofinance&amp;utm_medium=yahoofinance
Time Published: 2026-06-08T14:35:00Z
Full Content:
Big insurance companies often post big numbers—sometimes big in a good way, sometimes bad. Just ask Allstate NYSE: ALL. Less than four years after reporting massive losses, Allstate just delivered a powerful turnaround with strong underwriting, rising premiums, growing investment income, and a higher dividend. Net income applicable to common shareholders rose more than fourfold compared with a year earlier. Earnings per share were nearly 50% above expectations. But it has yet to convince investors. Because even as profitability surges, stockholders need to weigh one unavoidable risk: a couple of bad storms can quickly reverse the story. To understand why Allstate's first-quarter results are so striking, it helps to remember where the company was not long ago. Like many major property and casualty insurers, Allstate spent 2022 and 2023 getting squeezed. Repair costs for autos and homes shot up with inflation. State regulators insisted on slowing rate increases. Allstate lost $1.4 billion in 2022 and $316 million in 2023. Its stock fell during the period by a third to about $100 per share. Allstate responded with the tools that insurers have. It raised rates where it could, pulled back in markets where it could not, and tightened its underwriting standards to weed out customers. By 2025, the strategy brought in $9.3 billion in adjusted net income, up 90% from the previous year, and $67.4 billion in total revenues for the year, an increase of nearly 6%. The first quarter of 2026 continued those results. In the first three months, Allstate earned $2.4 billion in net income, equal to $10.65 per share, more than $3 a share higher than analysts had expected. That compared with net income for the year-ago quarter of $566 million. Total revenue climbed 3% to $16.9 billion. Policies in force reached 212 million. Each of its lines showed improvement. Auto insurance premiums earned rose 2.1% to $9.5 billion, while earned homeowners premiums grew 13.9% to $4.2 billion. As of March 31, Allstate had 25.8 million auto policies, up 2.6%, and 7.7 million homeowners policies in force, an increase of 2.5%. Although smallest by revenue, the company’s various protection plans and services make up the vast majority of its more than 200 million policies. That segment contributed $922 million in revenue for the quarter, up 7.2% from the year-earlier period. Besides the growth in business, the number that explains much of these positive results is known in insurance simply as the combined ratio. That ratio is a measure of how much Allstate pays out for claims and to manage every $100 it brings in as premiums. The lower the number, the better. Underwriting strategy and management efficiencies can explain much of the improvement, but the weather and disasters must also cooperate. In the first quarter of 2026, Allstate saw a dramatic improvement in its overall property-liability combined ratio, coming in at only 82 compared with 97.4 just a year earlier. That extra money also boosts the funds it can hold and invest, these days at higher rates. Allstate earned $938 million from its investment portfolio in the quarter, up nearly 10% from $854 million a year earlier. Given these numbers, Allstate’s stock has remained remarkably flat over the past year, similar to some of its publicly traded competitors such as Travelers NYSE: TRV and much better than Progressive NYSE: PGR. In May, we were reminded why that might be. That is, investors were reminded of the business that Allstate is in. On May 21, just weeks after announcing its outstanding first quarter, and just days after its stock reached a 52-week high, Allstate disclosed that estimated catastrophe losses in April reached $870 million before taxes, caused by 10 separate wind and hail events across the country. About 70% of that total, it said, came from two storms. Although the company entered storm season from a position of financial strength, no matter how disciplined a company's underwriting is, it cannot price away tornado season. Insurance investors and analysts are all too aware of the likelihood of some losses. Still, of the 21 analysts following Allstate, 11 analysts rate the company a Buy. Nine suggest Hold and only one recommends Sell. Overall, the average rating is a Moderate Buy, with a 12-month average price target of $241.67, which is nicely above the stock's current price. The company also has a consistent track record of dividends. After a nearly 9% increase in February, Allstate’s quarterly dividend is currently $1.08 per share, continuing to build on its 13% annualized five-year dividend growth. Whether Allstate deserves a place in a portfolio of financial services stocks depends on the investor. The P&C insurance business is not going to change. It will have great years and bad years. Allstate appears ready to handle them both. For income investors, the dividend yield is not overly persuasive, but the consistent increases deliver an appeal. For value investors, whether Allstate has much room to run remains to be seen. The company’s stock has roughly doubled since its recovery began in mid-2023. How much further it will go, and how fast it will get there, might depend on the winds. Before you consider Allstate, you'll want to hear this. MarketBeat keeps track of Wall Street's top-rated and best performing research analysts and the stocks they recommend to their clients on a daily basis. MarketBeat has identified the five stocks that top analysts are quietly whispering to their clients to buy now before the broader market catches on... and Allstate wasn't on the list. While Allstate currently has a Moderate Buy rating among analysts, top-rated analysts believe these five stocks are better buys. View The Five Stocks Here Discover the 10 Best High-Yield Dividend Stocks for 2026 and secure reliable income in uncertain markets. Download the report now to identify top dividend payers and avoid common yield traps. Sign up for MarketBeat All Access to gain access to MarketBeat's full suite of research tools. Featured By 345 N Reid Place, Suite 620, Sioux Falls, SD 57103 contact@marketbeat.com (844) 978-6257 © MarketBeat Media, LLC 2010-2026. All rights reserved. © 2026 Fair market value prices are updated every minute and are provided by Massive. Other market data provided is at least 10-minutes delayed and hosted by Barchart Solutions. Information is provided 'as-is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice, and is delayed. To see all exchange delays and terms of use please see Barchart's disclaimer. My Account -
--------------------------------------------------

Title: NVIDIA Corporation (NVDA) is a Cheap Robotics Stock to buy as the Vera CPU Tops on Autonomous Functions
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/nvidia-corporation-nvda-cheap-robotics-120120051.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T12:01:20Z
Description: NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA) is one of the cheap robotics stocks to buy right now. On May 26, NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA) reported that its Vera CPU...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Vida Health, Instacart (CART) Partner to Provide Targeted Nutrition Stipends for Cardiometabolic Care
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/vida-health-instacart-cart-partner-104727352.html
Time Published: 2026-06-08T10:47:27Z
Description: Maplebear Inc. (NASDAQ:CART) is one of the most undervalued stocks to buy and hold for 2 years. On June 4, Vida Health and Instacart have partnered to...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is VICI Properties Inc. (VICI) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/vici-properties-inc-vici-good-212722352.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:27:22Z
Description: Is VICI a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on VICI Properties Inc. on Investing Lawyer’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Autodesk, Inc. (ADSK) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/autodesk-inc-adsk-good-stock-212655292.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:26:55Z
Description: Is ADSK a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Autodesk, Inc. on r/ValueInvesting by Far-East-locker. In this article, we will summarize the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is FinVolution Group (FINV) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/finvolution-group-finv-good-stock-212612068.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:26:12Z
Description: Is FINV a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on FinVolution Group on r/ValueInvesting by ClashingThought. In this article, we will summarize ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is GE Vernova Inc. (GEV) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/ge-vernova-inc-gev-good-212358619.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:23:58Z
Description: Is GEV a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on GE Vernova Inc. on Nikhs’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis on...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Klarna Group plc (KLAR) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/klarna-group-plc-klar-good-212344146.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:23:44Z
Description: Is KLAR a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Klarna Group plc on Global Equity Briefing’s Substack by Ray Myers. In this article, we will ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Spotify Technology S.A. (SPOT) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/spotify-technology-spot-good-stock-212248755.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:22:48Z
Description: Is SPOT a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Spotify Technology S.A. on Nikhs’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is CoreWeave, Inc. (CRWV) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/coreweave-inc-crwv-good-stock-212159416.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:21:59Z
Description: Is CRWV a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on CoreWeave, Inc. on Elliot’s Musings’s Substack by Elliot. In this article, we will summarize ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Honeywell International Inc. (HON) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/honeywell-international-inc-hon-good-212147412.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T21:21:47Z
Description: Is HON a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Honeywell International Inc. on r/ValueInvesting by Buffprime. In this article, we will...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (UNH) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/unitedhealth-group-incorporated-unh-good-201437713.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T20:14:37Z
Description: Is UNH a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on UnitedHealth Group Incorporated on r/ValueInvesting by ContributionKindly13. In this article, ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Arista Networks, Inc. (ANET) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/arista-networks-inc-anet-good-201352864.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T20:13:52Z
Description: Is ANET a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Arista Networks, Inc. on Compounding Lab’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/cisco-systems-inc-csco-good-201310196.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T20:13:10Z
Description: Is CSCO a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Cisco Systems, Inc. on r/investing_discussion by Variant_Invest. In this article, we will...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Planet Labs PBC (PL) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/planet-labs-pbc-pl-good-201036993.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T20:10:36Z
Description: Is PL a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Planet Labs PBC on EAA Partners’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is PayPal Holdings, Inc. (PYPL) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/paypal-holdings-inc-pypl-good-201017819.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T20:10:17Z
Description: Is PYPL a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on PayPal Holdings, Inc. on William’s Substack by William Fleming-Daniels. In this article, we...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/asml-holding-n-v-asml-164901824.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:49:01Z
Description: Is ASML a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on ASML Holding N.V. on Elliot’s Musings’s Substack by Elliot. In this article, we will...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is AXT, Inc. (AXTI) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/axt-inc-axti-good-stock-164847302.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:48:47Z
Description: Is AXTI a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on AXT, Inc. on Studio Innovation’s Substack by Studio. In this article, we will summarize the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/costco-wholesale-corporation-cost-good-164723406.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:47:23Z
Description: Is COST a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Costco Wholesale Corporation on LongYield’s Substack by. In this article, we will summarize...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is First American Financial Corporation (FAF) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/first-american-financial-corporation-faf-164710829.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:47:10Z
Description: Is FAF a good stock to buy? We came across a bearish thesis on First American Financial Corporation on Valueinvestorsclub.com by JackBlack. In this article, ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Ross Stores, Inc. (ROST) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/ross-stores-inc-rost-good-164423176.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:44:23Z
Description: Is ROST a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Ross Stores, Inc. on LongYield’s Substack. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Builders FirstSource, Inc. (BLDR) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/builders-firstsource-inc-bldr-good-164342813.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:43:42Z
Description: Is BLDR a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Builders FirstSource, Inc. on X.com by @tomicki. In this article, we will summarize the bulls...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Cogent Biosciences, Inc. (COGT) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/cogent-biosciences-inc-cogt-good-164259125.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T16:42:59Z
Description: Is COGT a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Cogent Biosciences, Inc. on X.com by @seedy19tron. In this article, we will summarize the...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Exponent, Inc. (EXPO) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/exponent-inc-expo-good-stock-145931993.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T14:59:31Z
Description: Is EXPO a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Exponent, Inc. on X.com by @tomicki. In this article, we will summarize the bulls’ thesis on...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Innovative Industrial Properties, Inc. (IIPR) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/innovative-industrial-properties-inc-iipr-145909896.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T14:59:09Z
Description: Is IIPR a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Innovative Industrial Properties, Inc. on ARMR Report Be The Smart Money’s Substack by Bret...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Everpure, Inc. (P) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/everpure-inc-p-good-stock-145834619.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T14:58:34Z
Description: Is P a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Everpure, Inc. on ARMR Report Be The Smart Money’s Substack by Bret Rosenthal. In this article, ...
--------------------------------------------------

Title: Is Pagaya Technologies Ltd. (PGY) A Good Stock To Buy Now?
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/pagaya-technologies-ltd-pgy-good-145821931.html
Time Published: 2026-06-07T14:58:21Z
Description: Is PGY a good stock to buy? We came across a bullish thesis on Pagaya Technologies Ltd. on Stay Invested’s Substack by Denis Gorbunov. In this article, we...
--------------------------------------------------